Infatuate Britons, while you still proclaim
His memory, your direst, foulest shame?
    Nor patriots revere?
Oh! while I hear each traitorous lying bell,
'Tis gallant Sydney's, Russel's, Vane's sad knell,
    That pains my wounded ear.”



How many bards gild the lapses of time!
    A few of them have ever been the food
    Of my delighted fancy,—I could brood
Over their beauties, earthly, or sublime:
And often, when I sit me down to rhyme,
    These will in throngs before my mind intrude:
    But no confusion, no disturbance rude
Do they occasion; 'tis a pleasing chime.
So the unnumber'd sounds that evening store;
    The songs of birds—the whisp'ring of the leaves—
The voice of waters—the great bell that heaves
    With solemn sound,—and thousand others more,
That distance of recognizance bereaves,
    Make pleasing music, and not wild uproar.



What though, for showing truth to flatter'd state,
    Kind Hunt was shut in prison, yet has he,
    In his immortal spirit, been as free
As the sky-searching lark, and as elate.
Minion of grandeur! think you he did wait?
    Think you he nought but prison walls did see,
    Till, so unwilling, thou unturn'dst the key?
Ah, no! far happier, nobler was his fate!
In Spenser's halls he strayed, and bowers fair,
    Culling enchanted flowers; and he flew
With daring Milton through the fields of air:
    To regions of his own his genius true
Took happy flights. Who shall his fame impair
    When thou art dead, and all thy wretched crew?



Nymph of the downward smile, and sidelong glance,
    In what diviner moments of the day
    Art thou most lovely? When gone far astray
Into the labyrinths of sweet utterance?
Or when serenely wand'ring in a trance
    Of sober thought? Or when starting away,
    With careless robe, to meet the morning ray,
Thou spar'st the flowers in thy mazy dance?
Haply 'tis when thy ruby lips part sweetly,
    And so remain, because thou listenest:
But thou to please wert nurtured so completely
    That I can never tell what mood is best.
I shall as soon pronounce which grace more neatly
    Trips it before Apollo than the rest.



Small, busy flames play through the fresh laid coals,
    And their faint cracklings o'er our silence creep
    Like whispers of the household gods that keep
A gentle empire o'er fraternal souls.
And while, for rhymes, I search around the poles,
    Your eyes are fix'd, as in poetic sleep,
    Upon the lore so voluble and deep,
That aye at fall of night our care condoles.
This is your birth-day Tom, and I rejoice
    That thus it passes smoothly, quietly.
Many such eves of gently whisp'ring noise
    May we together pass, and calmly try
What are this world's true joys,—ere the great voice,
    From its fair face, shall bid our spirits fly.



O solitude! if I must with thee dwell,
    Let it not be among the jumbled heap
    Of murky buildings; climb with me the steep,—
Nature's observatory—whence the dell,
Its flowery slopes, its river's crystal swell,
    May seem a span; let me thy vigils keep
    'Mongst boughs pavillion'd, where the deer's swift leap
Startles the wild bee from the fox-glove bell.
But though I'll gladly trace these scenes with thee,
    Yet the sweet converse of an innocent mind,
Whose words are images of thoughts refin'd,
    Is my soul's pleasure; and it sure must be
Almost the highest bliss of human-kind,
    When to thy haunts two kindred spirits flee.



Keen, fitful gusts are whisp'ring here and there
    Among the bushes half leafless, and dry;
    The stars look very cold about the sky,
And I have many miles on foot to fare.
Yet feel I little of the cool bleak air,
    Or of the dead leaves rustling drearily,
    Or of those silver lamps that burn on high,
Or of the distance from home's pleasant lair:
For I am brimfull of the friendliness
    That in a little cottage I have found;
Of fair-hair'd Milton's eloquent distress,
    And all his love for gentle Lycid drown'd;
Of lovely Laura in her light green dress,
    And faithful Petrarch gloriously crown'd.



Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold,
    And many goodly states and kingdoms seen;
    Round many western islands have I been
Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold.
Oft of one wide expanse had I been told
    That deep-brow'd Homer ruled as his demesne;
    Yet did I never breathe its pure serene
Till I heard Chapman speak out loud and bold:
Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
    When a new planet swims into his ken;
Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes
    He star'd at the Pacific—and all his men
Look'd at each other with a wild surmise—
    Silent, upon a peak in Darien.



Glory and loveliness have passed away;
    For if we wander out in early morn,
    No wreathed incense do we see upborne
Into the east, to meet the smiling day:
No crowd of nymphs soft voic'd and young, and gay,
    In woven baskets bringing ears of corn,
    Roses, and pinks, and violets, to adorn
The shrine of Flora in her early May.
But there are left delights as high as these,
    And I shall ever bless my destiny,
That in a time, when under pleasant trees
    Pan is no longer sought, I feel a free
A leafy luxury, seeing I could please
    With these poor offerings, a man like thee.



Read me a lesson, Muse, and speak it loud
    Upon the top of Nevis, blind in mist!
I look into the chasms, and a shroud
    Vapourous doth hide them,—just so much I wist
Mankind do know of hell; I look o'erhead,
    And there is sullen mist,—even so much
Mankind can tell of heaven; mist is spread
    Before the earth, beneath me,—even such,
Even so vague is man's sight of himself!
    Here are the craggy stones beneath my feet,—
Thus much I know that, a poor witless elf,
    I tread on them,—that all my eye doth meet
Is mist and crag, not only on this height,
But in the world of thought and mental might!



Nature withheld Cassandra in the skies,
    For more adornment, a full thousand years;
She took their cream of Beauty's fairest dyes,
    And shap'd and tinted her above all Peers:
Meanwhile Love kept her dearly with his wings,
    And underneath their shadow fill'd her eyes
With such a richness that the cloudy Kings
    Of high Olympus utter'd slavish sighs.
When from the Heavens I saw her first descend,
    My heart took fire, and only burning pains,
They were my pleasures—they my Life's sad end;
    Love pour'd her beauty into my warm veins...
[....]
[....]



All gentle folks who owe a grudge
    To any living thing
Open your ears and stay your t[r]udge
    Whilst I in dudgeon sing.
The Gadfly he hath stung me sore—
    O may he ne'er sting you!
But we have many a horrid bore
    He may sting black and blue.
Has any here an old grey Mare
    With three legs all her store,
O put it to her Buttocks bare
    And straight she'll run on four.
Has any here a Lawyer suit
    Of Seventeen-Forty-Three,
Take Lawyer's nose and put it to 't
    And you the end will see.
Is there a Man in Parliament
    Dum[b-]founder'd in his speech,
O let his neighbour make a rent
    And put one in his breech.
O Lowther how much better thou
    Hadst figur'd t'other day
When to the folks thou mad'st a bow
    And hadst no more to say
If lucky Gadfly had but ta'en
    His seat [....]
And put thee to a little pain
    To save thee from a worse.
Better than Southey it had been,
    Better than Mr. D,
Better than Wordsworth too, I ween,
    Better than Mr. V.
Forgive me pray good people all
    For deviating so—
In spirit sure I had a call—
    And now I on will go.
Has any here a daughter fair
    Too fond of reading novels,
Too apt to fall in love with care
    And charming Mister Lovels,
O put a Gadfly to that thing
    She keeps so white and pert—
I mean the finger for the ring,
    And it will breed a wort.
Has any here a pious spouse
    Who seven times a day
Scolds as King David pray'd, to chouse
    And have her holy way—
O let a Gadfly's little sting
    Persuade her sacred tongue
That noises are a common thing,
    But that her bell has rung.
And as this is the summum bo-
    num of all conquering,
I leave “withouten wordes mo”
    The Gadfly's little sting.



There is a charm in footing slow across a silent plain,
Where patriot battle has been fought, where glory had the gain;
There is a pleasure on the heath where Druids old have been,
Where mantles grey have rustled by and swept the nettles green;
There is a joy in every spot made known by times of old,
New to the feet, although each tale a hundred times be told;
There is a deeper joy than all, more solemn in the heart,
More parching to the tongue than all, of more divine a smart,
When weary steps forget themselves upon a pleasant turf,
Upon hot sand, or flinty road, or sea-shore iron scurf,
Toward the castle or the cot, where long ago was born
One who was great through mortal days, and died of fame unshorn,
Light heather-bells may tremble then, but they are far away;
Wood-lark may sing from sandy fern,—the Sun may hear his lay;
Runnels may kiss the grass on shelves and shallows clear,
But their low voices are not heard, though come on travels drear;
Blood-red the Sun may set behind black mountain peaks;
Blue tides may sluice and drench their time in caves and weedy creeks;
Eagles may seem to sleep wing-wide upon the air;
Ring-doves may fly convuls'd across to some high-cedar'd lair;
But the forgotten eye is still fast lidded to the ground,
As Palmer's, that with weariness, mid-desert shrine hath found.
At such a time the soul's a child, in childhood is the brain;
Forgotten is the worldly heart—alone, it beats in vain.—
Aye, if a madman could have leave to pass a healthful day
To tell his forehead's swoon and faint when first began decay,
He might make tremble many a one whose spirit had gone forth
To find a Bard's low cradle-place about the silent North!
Scanty the hour and few the steps beyond the bourn of care,
Beyond the sweet and bitter world,—beyond it unaware!
Scanty the hour and few the steps, because a longer stay
Would bar return, and make a man forget his mortal way:
O horrible! to lose the sight of well remember'd face,
Of Brother's eyes, of Sister's brow—constant to every place;
Filling the air, as on we move, with portraiture intense;
More warm than those heroic tints that pain a painter's sense,
When shapes of old come striding by, and visages of old,
Locks shining black, hair scanty grey, and passions manifold.
No, no, that horror cannot be, for at the cable's length
Man feels the gentle anchor pull and gladdens in its strength:—
One hour, half-idiot, he stands by mossy waterfall,
But in the very next he reads his soul's memorial:—
He reads it on the mountain's height, where chance he may sit down
Upon rough marble diadem—that hill's eternal crown.
Yet be his anchor e'er so fast, room is there for a prayer
That man may never lose his mind on mountains black and bare;
That he may stray league after league some great birthplace to find
And keep his vision clear from speck, his inward sight unblind.



Of late two dainties were before me plac'd
    Sweet, holy, pure, sacred and innocent,
    From the ninth sphere to me benignly sent
That Gods might know my own particular taste:
First the soft Bag-pipe mourn'd with zealous haste,
    The Stranger next with head on bosom bent
    Sigh'd; rueful again the piteous Bag-pipe went,
Again the Stranger sighings fresh did waste.
O Bag-pipe thou didst steal my heart away—
    O Stranger thou my nerves from Pipe didst charm—
O Bag-pipe thou didst re-assert thy sway—
    Again thou Stranger gav'st me fresh alarm—
Alas! I could not choose. Ah! my poor heart,
Mum chance art thou with both oblig'd to part.



    St. Agnes' Eve—Ah, bitter chill it was!
    The owl, for all his feathers, was a-cold;
    The hare limp'd trembling through the frozen grass,
    And silent was the flock in woolly fold:
    Numb were the Beadsman's fingers, while he told
    His rosary, and while his frosted breath,
    Like pious incense from a censer old,
    Seem'd taking flight for heaven, without a death,
Past the sweet Virgin's picture, while his prayer he saith.
    His prayer he saith, this patient, holy man;
    Then takes his lamp, and riseth from his knees,
    And back returneth, meagre, barefoot, wan,
    Along the chapel aisle by slow degrees:
    The sculptur'd dead, on each side, seem to freeze,
    Emprison'd in black, purgatorial rails:
    Knights, ladies, praying in dumb orat'ries,
    He passeth by; and his weak spirit fails
To think how they may ache in icy hoods and mails.
    Northward he turneth through a little door,
    And scarce three steps, ere Music's golden tongue
    Flatter'd to tears this aged man and poor;
    But no—already had his deathbell rung;
    The joys of all his life were said and sung:
    His was harsh penance on St. Agnes' Eve:
    Another way he went, and soon among
    Rough ashes sat he for his soul's reprieve,
And all night kept awake, for sinners' sake to grieve.
    That ancient Beadsman heard the prelude soft;
    And so it chanc'd, for many a door was wide,
    From hurry to and fro. Soon, up aloft,
    The silver, snarling trumpets 'gan to chide:
    The level chambers, ready with their pride,
    Were glowing to receive a thousand guests:
    The carved angels, ever eager-eyed,
    Star'd, where upon their heads the cornice rests,
With hair blown back, and wings put cross-wise on their breasts.
    At length burst in the argent revelry,
    With plume, tiara, and all rich array,
    Numerous as shadows haunting fairily
    The brain, new stuff'd, in youth, with triumphs gay
    Of old romance. These let us wish away,
    And turn, sole-thoughted, to one Lady there,
    Whose heart had brooded, all that wintry day,
    On love, and wing'd St. Agnes' saintly care,
As she had heard old dames full many times declare.
    They told her how, upon St. Agnes' Eve,
    Young virgins might have visions of delight,
    And soft adorings from their loves receive
    Upon the honey'd middle of the night,
    If ceremonies due they did aright;
    As, supperless to bed they must retire,
    And couch supine their beauties, lily white;
    Nor look behind, nor sideways, but require
Of Heaven with upward eyes for all that they desire.
    Full of this whim was thoughtful Madeline:
    The music, yearning like a God in pain,
    She scarcely heard: her maiden eyes divine,
    Fix'd on the floor, saw many a sweeping train
    Pass by—she heeded not at all: in vain
    Came many a tiptoe, amorous cavalier,
    And back retir'd; not cool'd by high disdain,
    But she saw not: her heart was otherwhere:
She sigh'd for Agnes' dreams, the sweetest of the year.
    She danc'd along with vague, regardless eyes,
    Anxious her lips, her breathing quick and short:
    The hallow'd hour was near at hand: she sighs
    Amid the timbrels, and the throng'd resort
    Of whisperers in anger, or in sport;
    'Mid looks of love, defiance, hate, and scorn,
    Hoodwink'd with faery fancy; all amort,
    Save to St. Agnes and her lambs unshorn,
And all the bliss to be before to-morrow morn.
    So, purposing each moment to retire,
    She linger'd still. Meantime, across the moors,
    Had come young Porphyro, with heart on fire
    For Madeline. Beside the portal doors,
    Buttress'd from moonlight, stands he, and implores
    All saints to give him sight of Madeline,
    But for one moment in the tedious hours,
    That he might gaze and worship all unseen;
Perchance speak, kneel, touch, kiss—in sooth such things have been.
    He ventures in: let no buzz'd whisper tell:
    All eyes be muffled, or a hundred swords
    Will storm his heart, Love's fev'rous citadel:
    For him, those chambers held barbarian hordes,
    Hyena foemen, and hot-blooded lords,
    Whose very dogs would execrations howl
    Against his lineage: not one breast affords
    Him any mercy, in that mansion foul,
Save one old beldame, weak in body and in soul.
    Ah, happy chance! the aged creature came,
    Shuffling along with ivory-headed wand,
    To where he stood, hid from the torch's flame,
    Behind a broad hall-pillar, far beyond
    The sound of merriment and chorus bland:
    He startled her; but soon she knew his face,
    And grasp'd his fingers in her palsied hand,
    Saying, “Mercy, Porphyro! hie thee from this place;
“They are all here to-night, the whole blood-thirsty race!
    “Get hence! get hence! there's dwarfish Hildebrand;
    “He had a fever late, and in the fit
    “He cursed thee and thine, both house and land:
    “Then there's that old Lord Maurice, not a whit
    “More tame for his gray hairs—Alas me! flit!
    “Flit like a ghost away.”—“Ah, Gossip dear,
    “We're safe enough; here in this arm-chair sit,
    “And tell me how”—“Good Saints! not here, not here;
“Follow me, child, or else these stones will be thy bier.”
    He follow'd through a lowly arched way,
    Brushing the cobwebs with his lofty plume,
    And as she mutter'd “Well-a—well-a-day!”
    He found him in a little moonlight room,
    Pale, lattic'd, chill, and silent as a tomb.
    “Now tell me where is Madeline,” said he,
    “O tell me, Angela, by the holy loom
    “Which none but secret sisterhood may see,
“When they St. Agnes' wool are weaving piously.”
    “St. Agnes! Ah! it is St. Agnes' Eve—
    “Yet men will murder upon holy days:
    “Thou must hold water in a witch's sieve,
    “And be liege-lord of all the Elves and Fays,
    “To venture so: it fills me with amaze
    “To see thee, Porphyro!—St. Agnes' Eve!
    “God's help! my lady fair the conjuror plays
    “This very night: good angels her deceive!
“But let me laugh awhile, I've mickle time to grieve.”
    Feebly she laugheth in the languid moon,
    While Porphyro upon her face doth look,
    Like puzzled urchin on an aged crone
    Who keepeth clos'd a wond'rous riddle-book,
    As spectacled she sits in chimney nook.
    But soon his eyes grew brilliant, when she told
    His lady's purpose; and he scarce could brook
    Tears, at the thought of those enchantments cold,
And Madeline asleep in lap of legends old.
    Sudden a thought came like a full-blown rose,
    Flushing his brow, and in his pained heart
    Made purple riot: then doth he propose
    A stratagem, that makes the beldame start:
    “A cruel man and impious thou art:
    “Sweet lady, let her pray, and sleep, and dream
    “Alone with her good angels, far apart
    “From wicked men like thee. Go, go!—I deem
“Thou canst not surely be the same that thou didst seem.
    “I will not harm her, by all saints I swear,”
    Quoth Porphyro: “O may I ne'er find grace
    “When my weak voice shall whisper its last prayer,
    “If one of her soft ringlets I displace,
    “Or look with ruffian passion in her face:
    “Good Angela, believe me by these tears;
    “Or I will, even in a moment's space,
    “Awake, with horrid shout, my foemen's ears,
“And beard them, though they be more fang'd than wolves and bears.”
    “Ah! why wilt thou affright a feeble soul?
    “A poor, weak, palsy-stricken, churchyard thing,
    “Whose passing-bell may ere the midnight toll;
    “Whose prayers for thee, each morn and evening,
    “Were never miss'd.”—Thus plaining, doth she bring
    A gentler speech from burning Porphyro;
    So woful, and of such deep sorrowing,
    That Angela gives promise she will do
Whatever he shall wish, betide her weal or woe.
    Which was, to lead him, in close secrecy,
    Even to Madeline's chamber, and there hide
    Him in a closet, of such privacy
    That he might see her beauty unespied,
    And win perhaps that night a peerless bride,
    While legion'd fairies pac'd the coverlet,
    And pale enchantment held her sleepy-eyed.
    Never on such a night have lovers met,
Since Merlin paid his Demon all the monstrous debt.
    “It shall be as thou wishest,” said the Dame:
    “All cates and dainties shall be stored there
    “Quickly on this feast-night: by the tambour frame
    “Her own lute thou wilt see: no time to spare,
    “For I am slow and feeble, and scarce dare
    “On such a catering trust my dizzy head.
    “Wait here, my child, with patience; kneel in prayer
    “The while: Ah! thou must needs the lady wed,
“Or may I never leave my grave among the dead.”
    So saying, she hobbled off with busy fear.
    The lover's endless minutes slowly pass'd;
    The dame return'd, and whisper'd in his ear
    To follow her; with aged eyes aghast
    From fright of dim espial. Safe at last,
    Through many a dusky gallery, they gain
    The maiden's chamber, silken, hush'd, and chaste;
    Where Porphyro took covert, pleas'd amain.
His poor guide hurried back with agues in her brain.
    Her falt'ring hand upon the balustrade,
    Old Angela was feeling for the stair,
    When Madeline, St. Agnes' charmed maid,
    Rose, like a mission'd spirit, unaware:
    With silver taper's light, and pious care,
    She turn'd, and down the aged gossip led
    To a safe level matting. Now prepare,
    Young Porphyro, for gazing on that bed;
She comes, she comes again, like ring-dove fray'd and fled.
    Out went the taper as she hurried in;
    Its little smoke, in pallid moonshine, died:
    She clos'd the door, she panted, all akin
    To spirits of the air, and visions wide:
    No uttered syllable, or, woe betide!
    But to her heart, her heart was voluble,
    Paining with eloquence her balmy side;
    As though a tongueless nightingale should swell
Her throat in vain, and die, heart-stifled, in her dell.
    A casement high and triple-arch'd there was,
    All garlanded with carven imag'ries
    Of fruits, and flowers, and bunches of knot-grass,
    And diamonded with panes of quaint device,
    Innumerable of stains and splendid dyes,
    As are the tiger-moth's deep-damask'd wings;
    And in the midst, 'mong thousand heraldries,
    And twilight saints, and dim emblazonings,
A shielded scutcheon blush'd with blood of queens and kings.
    Full on this casement shone the wintry moon,
    And threw warm gules on Madeline's fair breast,
    As down she knelt for heaven's grace and boon;
    Rose-bloom fell on her hands, together prest,
    And on her silver cross soft amethyst,
    And on her hair a glory, like a saint:
    She seem'd a splendid angel, newly drest,
    Save wings, for heaven:—Porphyro grew faint:
She knelt, so pure a thing, so free from mortal taint.
    Anon his heart revives: her vespers done,
    Of all its wreathed pearls her hair she frees;
    Unclasps her warmed jewels one by one;
    Loosens her fragrant boddice; by degrees
    Her rich attire creeps rustling to her knees:
    Half-hidden, like a mermaid in sea-weed,
    Pensive awhile she dreams awake, and sees,
    In fancy, fair St. Agnes in her bed,
But dares not look behind, or all the charm is fled.
    Soon, trembling in her soft and chilly nest,
    In sort of wakeful swoon, perplex'd she lay,
    Until the poppied warmth of sleep oppress'd
    Her soothed limbs, and soul fatigued away;
    Flown, like a thought, until the morrow-day;
    Blissfully haven'd both from joy and pain;
    Clasp'd like a missal where swart Paynims pray;
    Blinded alike from sunshine and from rain,
As though a rose should shut, and be a bud again.
    Stol'n to this paradise, and so entranced,
    Porphyro gazed upon her empty dress,
    And listen'd to her breathing, if it chanced
    To wake into a slumberous tenderness;
    Which when he heard, that minute did he bless,
    And breath'd himself: then from the closet crept,
    Noiseless as fear in a wide wilderness,
    And over the hush'd carpet, silent, stept,
And 'tween the curtains peep'd, where, lo!—how fast she slept.
    Then by the bed-side, where the faded moon
    Made a dim, silver twilight, soft he set
    A table, and, half anguish'd, threw thereon
    A cloth of woven crimson, gold, and jet:—
    O for some drowsy Morphean amulet!
    The boisterous, midnight, festive clarion,
    The kettle-drum, and far-heard clarionet,
    Affray his ears, though but in dying tone:—
The hall door shuts again, and all the noise is gone.
    And still she slept an azure-lidded sleep,
    In blanched linen, smooth, and lavender'd,
    While he from forth the closet brought a heap
    Of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd;
    With jellies soother than the creamy curd,
    And lucent syrops, tinct with cinnamon;
    Manna and dates, in argosy transferr'd
    From Fez; and spiced dainties, every one,
From silken Samarcand to cedar'd Lebanon.
    These delicates he heap'd with glowing hand
    On golden dishes and in baskets bright
    Of wreathed silver: sumptuous they stand
    In the retired quiet of the night,
    Filling the chilly room with perfume light.—
    “And now, my love, my seraph fair, awake!
    “Thou art my heaven, and I thine eremite:
    “Open thine eyes, for meek St. Agnes' sake,
“Or I shall drowse beside thee, so my soul doth ache.”
    Thus whispering, his warm, unnerved arm
    Sank in her pillow. Shaded was her dream
    By the dusk curtains:—'twas a midnight charm
    Impossible to melt as iced stream:
    The lustrous salvers in the moonlight gleam;
    Broad golden fringe upon the carpet lies:
    It seem'd he never, never could redeem
    From such a stedfast spell his lady's eyes;
So mus'd awhile, entoil'd in woofed phantasies.
    Awakening up, he took her hollow lute,—
    Tumultuous,—and, in chords that tenderest be,
    He play'd an ancient ditty, long since mute,
    In Provence call'd, “La belle dame sans mercy:”
    Close to her ear touching the melody;—
    Wherewith disturb'd, she utter'd a soft moan:
    He ceased—she panted quick—and suddenly
    Her blue affrayed eyes wide open shone:
Upon his knees he sank, pale as smooth-sculptured stone.
    Her eyes were open, but she still beheld,
    Now wide awake, the vision of her sleep:
    There was a painful change, that nigh expell'd
    The blisses of her dream so pure and deep
    At which fair Madeline began to weep,
    And moan forth witless words with many a sigh;
    While still her gaze on Porphyro would keep;
    Who knelt, with joined hands and piteous eye,
Fearing to move or speak, she look'd so dreamingly.
    “Ah, Porphyro!” said she, “but even now
    “Thy voice was at sweet tremble in mine ear,
    “Made tuneable with every sweetest vow;
    “And those sad eyes were spiritual and clear:
    “How chang'd thou art! how pallid, chill, and drear!
    “Give me that voice again, my Porphyro,
    “Those looks immortal, those complainings dear!
    “Oh leave me not in this eternal woe,
“For if thou diest, my Love, I know not where to go.”
    Beyond a mortal man impassion'd far
    At these voluptuous accents, he arose,
    Ethereal, flush'd, and like a throbbing star
    Seen mid the sapphire heaven's deep repose;
    Into her dream he melted, as the rose
    Blendeth its odour with the violet,—
    Solution sweet: meantime the frost-wind blows
    Like Love's alarum pattering the sharp sleet
Against the window-panes; St. Agnes' moon hath set.
    'Tis dark: quick pattereth the flaw-blown sleet:
    “This is no dream, my bride, my Madeline!”
    'Tis dark: the iced gusts still rave and beat:
    “No dream, alas! alas! and woe is mine!
    “Porphyro will leave me here to fade and pine.—
    “Cruel! what traitor could thee hither bring?
    “I curse not, for my heart is lost in thine,
    “Though thou forsakest a deceived thing;—
“A dove forlorn and lost with sick unpruned wing.”
    “My Madeline! sweet dreamer! lovely bride!
    “Say, may I be for aye thy vassal blest?
    “Thy beauty's shield, heart-shap'd and vermeil dyed?
    “Ah, silver shrine, here will I take my rest
    “After so many hours of toil and quest,
    “A famish'd pilgrim,—saved by miracle.
    “Though I have found, I will not rob thy nest
    “Saving of thy sweet self; if thou think'st well
“To trust, fair Madeline, to no rude infidel.”
    “Hark! 'tis an elfin-storm from faery land,
    “Of haggard seeming, but a boon indeed:
    “Arise—arise! the morning is at hand;—
    “The bloated wassaillers will never heed:—
    “Let us away, my love, with happy speed;
    “There are no ears to hear, or eyes to see,—
    “Drown'd all in Rhenish and the sleepy mead:
    “Awake! arise! my love, and fearless be,
“For o'er the southern moors I have a home for thee.”
    She hurried at his words, beset with fears,
    For there were sleeping dragons all around,
    At glaring watch, perhaps, with ready spears—
    Down the wide stairs a darkling way they found.—
    In all the house was heard no human sound.
    A chain-droop'd lamp was flickering by each door;
    The arras, rich with horseman, hawk, and hound,
    Flutter'd in the besieging wind's uproar;
And the long carpets rose along the gusty floor.
    They glide, like phantoms, into the wide hall;
    Like phantoms, to the iron porch, they glide;
    Where lay the Porter, in uneasy sprawl,
    With a huge empty flaggon by his side:
    The wakeful bloodhound rose, and shook his hide,
    But his sagacious eye an inmate owns:
    By one, and one, the bolts full easy slide:—
    The chains lie silent on the footworn stones;—
The key turns, and the door upon its hinges groans.
    And they are gone: ay, ages long ago
    These lovers fled away into the storm.
    That night the Baron dreamt of many a woe,
    And all his warrior-guests, with shade and form
    Of witch, and demon, and large coffin-worm,
    Were long be-nightmar'd. Angela the old
    Died palsy-twitch'd, with meagre face deform;
    The Beadsman, after thousand aves told,
For aye unsought for slept among his ashes cold.



FAIR Isabel, poor simple Isabel!
    Lorenzo, a young palmer in Love's eye!
They could not in the self-same mansion dwell
    Without some stir of heart, some malady;
They could not sit at meals but feel how well
    It soothed each to be the other by;
They could not, sure, beneath the same roof sleep
But to each other dream, and nightly weep.
With every morn their love grew tenderer,
    With every eve deeper and tenderer still;
He might not in house, field, or garden stir,
    But her full shape would all his seeing fill;
And his continual voice was pleasanter
    To her, than noise of trees or hidden rill;
Her lute-string gave an echo of his name,
She spoilt her half-done broidery with the same.
He knew whose gentle hand was at the latch,
    Before the door had given her to his eyes;
And from her chamber-window he would catch
    Her beauty farther than the falcon spies;
And constant as her vespers would he watch,
    Because her face was turn'd to the same skies;
And with sick longing all the night outwear,
To hear her morning-step upon the stair.
A whole long month of May in this sad plight
    Made their cheeks paler by the break of June:
“To-morrow will I bow to my delight,
    “To-morrow will I ask my lady's boon.”—
“O may I never see another night,
    “Lorenzo, if thy lips breathe not love's tune.”—
So spake they to their pillows; but, alas,
Honeyless days and days did he let pass;
Until sweet Isabella's untouch'd cheek
    Fell sick within the rose's just domain,
Fell thin as a young mother's, who doth seek
    By every lull to cool her infant's pain:
“How ill she is,” said he, “I may not speak,
    “And yet I will, and tell my love all plain:
“If looks speak love-laws, I will drink her tears,
“And at the least 'twill startle off her cares.”
So said he one fair morning, and all day
    His heart beat awfully against his side;
And to his heart he inwardly did pray
    For power to speak; but still the ruddy tide
Stifled his voice, and puls'd resolve away—
    Fever'd his high conceit of such a bride,
Yet brought him to the meekness of a child:
Alas! when passion is both meek and wild!
So once more he had wak'd and anguished
    A dreary night of love and misery,
If Isabel's quick eye had not been wed
    To every symbol on his forehead high;
She saw it waxing very pale and dead,
    And straight all flush'd; so, lisped tenderly,
“Lorenzo!”—here she ceas'd her timid quest,
But in her tone and look he read the rest.
“O Isabella, I can half perceive
    “That I may speak my grief into thine ear;
“If thou didst ever any thing believe,
    “Believe how I love thee, believe how near
“My soul is to its doom: I would not grieve
    “Thy hand by unwelcome pressing, would not fear
“Thine eyes by gazing; but I cannot live
“Another night, and not my passion shrive.
“Love! thou art leading me from wintry cold,
    “Lady! thou leadest me to summer clime,
“And I must taste the blossoms that unfold
    “In its ripe warmth this gracious morning time.”
So said, his erewhile timid lips grew bold,
    And poesied with hers in dewy rhyme:
Great bliss was with them, and great happiness
Grew, like a lusty flower in June's caress.
Parting they seem'd to tread upon the air,
    Twin roses by the zephyr blown apart
Only to meet again more close, and share
    The inward fragrance of each other's heart.
She, to her chamber gone, a ditty fair
    Sang, of delicious love and honey'd dart;
He with light steps went up a western hill.
And bade the sun farewell, and joy'd his fill.
All close they met again, before the dusk
    Had taken from the stars its pleasant veil,
All close they met, all eves, before the dusk
    Had taken from the stars its pleasant veil,
Close in a bower of hyacinth and musk,
    Unknown of any, free from whispering tale.
Ah! better had it been for ever so,
Than idle ears should pleasure in their woe.
Were they unhappy then?—It cannot be—
    Too many tears for lovers have been shed,
Too many sighs give we to them in fee,
    Too much of pity after they are dead,
Too many doleful stories do we see,
    Whose matter in bright gold were best be read;
Except in such a page where Theseus' spouse
Over the pathless waves towards him bows.
But, for the general award of love,
    The little sweet doth kill much bitterness;
Though Dido silent is in under-grove,
    And Isabella's was a great distress,
Though young Lorenzo in warm Indian clove
    Was not embalm'd, this truth is not the less—
Even bees, the little almsmen of spring-bowers,
Know there is richest juice in poison-flowers.
With her two brothers this fair lady dwelt,
    Enriched from ancestral merchandize,
And for them many a weary hand did swelt
    In torched mines and noisy factories,
And many once proud-quiver'd loins did melt
    In blood from stinging whip;—with hollow eyes
Many all day in dazzling river stood,
To take the rich-ored driftings of the flood.
For them the Ceylon diver held his breath,
    And went all naked to the hungry shark;
For them his ears gush'd blood; for them in death
    The seal on the cold ice with piteous bark
Lay full of darts; for them alone did seethe
    A thousand men in troubles wide and dark:
Half-ignorant, they turn'd an easy wheel,
That set sharp racks at work, to pinch and peel.
Why were they proud? Because their marble founts
    Gush'd with more pride than do a wretch's tears?—
Why were they proud? Because fair orange-mounts
    Were of more soft ascent than lazar stairs?—
Why were they proud? Because red-lin'd accounts
    Were richer than the songs of Grecian years?—
Why were they proud? again we ask aloud,
Why in the name of Glory were they proud?
Yet were these Florentines as self-retired
    In hungry pride and gainful cowardice,
As two close Hebrews in that land inspired,
    Paled in and vineyarded from beggar-spies;
The hawks of ship-mast forests—the untired
    And pannier'd mules for ducats and old lies—
Quick cat's-paws on the generous stray-away,—
Great wits in Spanish, Tuscan, and Malay.
How was it these same ledger-men could spy
    Fair Isabella in her downy nest?
How could they find out in Lorenzo's eye
    A straying from his toil? Hot Egypt's pest
Into their vision covetous and sly!
    How could these money-bags see east and west?—
Yet so they did—and every dealer fair
Must see behind, as doth the hunted hare.
O eloquent and famed Boccaccio!
    Of thee we now should ask forgiving boon,
And of thy spicy myrtles as they blow,
    And of thy roses amorous of the moon,
And of thy lilies, that do paler grow
    Now they can no more hear thy ghittern's tune,
For venturing syllables that ill beseem
The quiet glooms of such a piteous theme.
Grant thou a pardon here, and then the tale
    Shall move on soberly, as it is meet;
There is no other crime, no mad assail
    To make old prose in modern rhyme more sweet:
But it is done—succeed the verse or fail—
    To honour thee, and thy gone spirit greet;
To stead thee as a verse in English tongue,
An echo of thee in the north-wind sung.
These brethren having found by many signs
    What love Lorenzo for their sister had,
And how she lov'd him too, each unconfines
    His bitter thoughts to other, well nigh mad
That he, the servant of their trade designs,
    Should in their sister's love be blithe and glad,
When 'twas their plan to coax her by degrees
To some high noble and his olive-trees.
And many a jealous conference had they,
    And many times they bit their lips alone,
Before they fix'd upon a surest way
    To make the youngster for his crime atone;
And at the last, these men of cruel clay
    Cut Mercy with a sharp knife to the bone;
For they resolved in some forest dim
To kill Lorenzo, and there bury him.
So on a pleasant morning, as he leant
    Into the sun-rise, o'er the balustrade
Of the garden-terrace, towards him they bent
    Their footing through the dews; and to him said,
“You seem there in the quiet of content,
    “Lorenzo, and we are most loth to invade
“Calm speculation; but if you are wise,
“Bestride your steed while cold is in the skies.
“To-day we purpose, ay, this hour we mount
    “To spur three leagues towards the Apennine;
“Come down, we pray thee, ere the hot sun count
    “His dewy rosary on the eglantine.”
Lorenzo, courteously as he was wont,
    Bow'd a fair greeting to these serpents' whine;
And went in haste, to get in readiness,
With belt, and spur, and bracing huntsman's dress.
And as he to the court-yard pass'd along,
    Each third step did he pause, and listen'd oft
If he could hear his lady's matin-song,
    Or the light whisper of her footstep soft;
And as he thus over his passion hung,
    He heard a laugh full musical aloft;
When, looking up, he saw her features bright
Smile through an in-door lattice, all delight.
“Love, Isabel!” said he, “I was in pain
    “Lest I should miss to bid thee a good morrow:
“Ah! what if I should lose thee, when so fain
    “I am to stifle all the heavy sorrow
“Of a poor three hours' absence? but we'll gain
    “Out of the amorous dark what day doth borrow.
“Good bye! I'll soon be back.”—“Good bye!” said she:—
And as he went she chanted merrily.
So the two brothers and their murder'd man
    Rode past fair Florence, to where Arno's stream
Gurgles through straiten'd banks, and still doth fan
    Itself with dancing bulrush, and the bream
Keeps head against the freshets. Sick and wan
    The brothers' faces in the ford did seem,
Lorenzo's flush with love.—They pass'd the water
Into a forest quiet for the slaughter.
There was Lorenzo slain and buried in,
    There in that forest did his great love cease;
Ah! when a soul doth thus its freedom win,
    It aches in loneliness—is ill at peace
As the break-covert blood-hounds of such sin:
    They dipp'd their swords in the water, and did tease
Their horses homeward, with convulsed spur,
Each richer by his being a murderer.
They told their sister how, with sudden speed,
    Lorenzo had ta'en ship for foreign lands,
Because of some great urgency and need
    In their affairs, requiring trusty hands.
Poor Girl! put on thy stifling widow's weed,
    And 'scape at once from Hope's accursed bands;
To-day thou wilt not see him, nor to-morrow,
And the next day will be a day of sorrow.
She weeps alone for pleasures not to be;
    Sorely she wept until the night came on,
And then, instead of love, O misery!
    She brooded o'er the luxury alone:
His image in the dusk she seem'd to see,
    And to the silence made a gentle moan,
Spreading her perfect arms upon the air,
And on her couch low murmuring “Where? O where?”
But Selfishness, Love's cousin, held not long
    Its fiery vigil in her single breast;
She fretted for the golden hour, and hung
    Upon the time with feverish unrest—
Not long—for soon into her heart a throng
    Of higher occupants, a richer zest,
Came tragic; passion not to be subdued,
And sorrow for her love in travels rude.
In the mid days of autumn, on their eves
    The breath of Winter comes from far away,
And the sick west continually bereaves
    Of some gold tinge, and plays a roundelay
Of death among the bushes and the leaves,
    To make all bare before he dares to stray
From his north cavern. So sweet Isabel
By gradual decay from beauty fell,
Because Lorenzo came not. Oftentimes
    She ask'd her brothers, with an eye all pale,
Striving to be itself, what dungeon climes
    Could keep him off so long? They spake a tale
Time after time, to quiet her. Their crimes
    Came on them, like a smoke from Hinnom's vale;
And every night in dreams they groan'd aloud,
To see their sister in her snowy shroud.
And she had died in drowsy ignorance,
    But for a thing more deadly dark than all;
It came like a fierce potion, drunk by chance,
    Which saves a sick man from the feather'd pall
For some few gasping moments; like a lance,
    Waking an Indian from his cloudy hall
With cruel pierce, and bringing him again
Sense of the gnawing fire at heart and brain.
It was a vision.—In the drowsy gloom,
    The dull of midnight, at her couch's foot
Lorenzo stood, and wept: the forest tomb
    Had marr'd his glossy hair which once could shoot
Lustre into the sun, and put cold doom
    Upon his lips, and taken the soft lute
From his lorn voice, and past his loamed ears
Had made a miry channel for his tears.
Strange sound it was, when the pale shadow spake;
    For there was striving, in its piteous tongue,
To speak as when on earth it was awake,
    And Isabella on its music hung:
Languor there was in it, and tremulous shake,
    As in a palsied Druid's harp unstrung;
And through it moan'd a ghostly under-song,
Like hoarse night-gusts sepulchral briars among.
Its eyes, though wild, were still all dewy bright
    With love, and kept all phantom fear aloof
From the poor girl by magic of their light,
    The while it did unthread the horrid woof
Of the late darken'd time,—the murderous spite
    Of pride and avarice,—the dark pine roof
In the forest,—and the sodden turfed dell,
Where, without any word, from stabs he fell.
Saying moreover, “Isabel, my sweet!
    “Red whortle-berries droop above my head,
“And a large flint-stone weighs upon my feet;
    “Around me beeches and high chestnuts shed
“Their leaves and prickly nuts; a sheep-fold bleat
    “Comes from beyond the river to my bed:
“Go, shed one tear upon my heather-bloom,
“And it shall comfort me within the tomb.
“I am a shadow now, alas! alas!
    “Upon the skirts of human-nature dwelling
“Alone: I chant alone the holy mass,
    “While little sounds of life are round me knelling,
“And glossy bees at noon do fieldward pass,
    “And many a chapel bell the hour is telling,
“Paining me through: those sounds grow strange to me,
“And thou art distant in Humanity.
“I know what was, I feel full well what is,
    “And I should rage, if spirits could go mad;
“Though I forget the taste of earthly bliss,
    “That paleness warms my grave, as though I had
“A Seraph chosen from the bright abyss
    “To be my spouse: thy paleness makes me glad;
“Thy beauty grows upon me, and I feel
“A greater love through all my essence steal.”
The Spirit mourn'd “Adieu!”—dissolv'd, and left
    The atom darkness in a slow turmoil;
As when of healthful midnight sleep bereft,
    Thinking on rugged hours and fruitless toil,
We put our eyes into a pillowy cleft,
    And see the spangly gloom froth up and boil:
It made sad Isabella's eyelids ache,
And in the dawn she started up awake;
“Ha! ha!” said she, “I knew not this hard life,
    “I thought the worst was simple misery;
“I thought some Fate with pleasure or with strife
    “Portion'd us—happy days, or else to die;
“But there is crime—a brother's bloody knife!
    “Sweet Spirit, thou hast school'd my infancy:
“I'll visit thee for this, and kiss thine eyes,
“And greet thee morn and even in the skies.”
When the full morning came, she had devised
    How she might secret to the forest hie;
How she might find the clay, so dearly prized,
    And sing to it one latest lullaby;
How her short absence might be unsurmised,
    While she the inmost of the dream would try.
Resolv'd, she took with her an aged nurse,
And went into that dismal forest-hearse.
See, as they creep along the river side,
    How she doth whisper to that aged Dame,
And, after looking round the champaign wide,
    Shows her a knife.—“What feverous hectic flame
“Burns in thee, child?—What good can thee betide,
    “That thou should'st smile again?”—The evening came,
And they had found Lorenzo's earthly bed;
The flint was there, the berries at his head.
Who hath not loiter'd in a green church-yard,
    And let his spirit, like a demon-mole,
Work through the clayey soil and gravel hard,
    To see scull, coffin'd bones, and funeral stole;
Pitying each form that hungry Death hath marr'd,
    And filling it once more with human soul?
Ah! this is holiday to what was felt
When Isabella by Lorenzo knelt.
She gaz'd into the fresh-thrown mould, as though
    One glance did fully all its secrets tell;
Clearly she saw, as other eyes would know
    Pale limbs at bottom of a crystal well;
Upon the murderous spot she seem'd to grow,
    Like to a native lily of the dell:
Then with her knife, all sudden, she began
To dig more fervently than misers can.
Soon she turn'd up a soiled glove, whereon
    Her silk had play'd in purple phantasies,
She kiss'd it with a lip more chill than stone,
    And put it in her bosom, where it dries
And freezes utterly unto the bone
    Those dainties made to still an infant's cries:
Then 'gan she work again; nor stay'd her care,
But to throw back at times her veiling hair.
That old nurse stood beside her wondering,
    Until her heart felt pity to the core
At sight of such a dismal labouring,
    And so she kneeled, with her locks all hoar,
And put her lean hands to the horrid thing:
    Three hours they labour'd at this travail sore;
At last they felt the kernel of the grave,
And Isabella did not stamp and rave.
Ah! wherefore all this wormy circumstance?
    Why linger at the yawning tomb so long?
O for the gentleness of old Romance,
    The simple plaining of a minstrel's song!
Fair reader, at the old tale take a glance,
    For here, in truth, it doth not well belong
To speak:—O turn thee to the very tale,
And taste the music of that vision pale.
With duller steel than the Perséan sword
    They cut away no formless monster's head,
But one, whose gentleness did well accord
    With death, as life. The ancient harps have said,
Love never dies, but lives, immortal Lord:
    If Love impersonate was ever dead,
Pale Isabella kiss'd it, and low moan'd.
'Twas love; cold,—dead indeed, but not dethroned.
In anxious secrecy they took it home,
    And then the prize was all for Isabel:
She calm'd its wild hair with a golden comb,
    And all around each eye's sepulchral cell
Pointed each fringed lash; the smeared loam
    With tears, as chilly as a dripping well,
She drench'd away:—and still she comb'd, and kept
Sighing all day—and still she kiss'd, and wept.
Then in a silken scarf,—sweet with the dews
    Of precious flowers pluck'd in Araby,
And divine liquids come with odorous ooze
    Through the cold serpent-pipe refreshfully,—
She wrapp'd it up; and for its tomb did choose
    A garden-pot, wherein she laid it by,
And cover'd it with mould, and o'er it set
Sweet Basil, which her tears kept ever wet.
And she forgot the stars, the moon, and sun,
    And she forgot the blue above the trees,
And she forgot the dells where waters run,
    And she forgot the chilly autumn breeze;
She had no knowledge when the day was done,
    And the new morn she saw not: but in peace
Hung over her sweet Basil evermore,
And moisten'd it with tears unto the core.
And so she ever fed it with thin tears,
    Whence thick, and green, and beautiful it grew,
So that it smelt more balmy than its peers
    Of Basil-tufts in Florence; for it drew
Nurture besides, and life, from human fears,
    From the fast mouldering head there shut from view:
So that the jewel, safely casketed,
Came forth, and in perfumed leafits spread.
O Melancholy, linger here awhile!
    O Music, Music, breathe despondingly!
O Echo, Echo, from some sombre isle,
    Unknown, Lethean, sigh to us—O sigh!
Spirits in grief, lift up your heads, and smile;
    Lift up your heads, sweet Spirits, heavily,
And make a pale light in your cypress glooms,
Tinting with silver wan your marble tombs.
Moan hither, all ye syllables of woe,
    From the deep throat of sad Melpomene!
Through bronzed lyre in tragic order go,
    And touch the strings into a mystery;
Sound mournfully upon the winds and low;
    For simple Isabel is soon to be
Among the dead: She withers, like a palm
Cut by an Indian for its juicy balm.
O leave the palm to wither by itself;
    Let not quick Winter chill its dying hour!—
It may not be—those Baälites of pelf,
    Her brethren, noted the continual shower
From her dead eyes; and many a curious elf,
    Among her kindred, wonder'd that such dower
Of youth and beauty should be thrown aside
By one mark'd out to be a Noble's bride.
And, furthermore, her brethren wonder'd much
    Why she sat drooping by the Basil green,
And why it flourish'd, as by magic touch;
    Greatly they wonder'd what the thing might mean:
They could not surely give belief, that such
    A very nothing would have power to wean
Her from her own fair youth, and pleasures gay,
And even remembrance of her love's delay.
Therefore they watch'd a time when they might sift
    This hidden whim; and long they watch'd in vain;
For seldom did she go to chapel-shrift,
    And seldom felt she any hunger-pain;
And when she left, she hurried back, as swift
    As bird on wing to breast its eggs again;
And, patient as a hen-bird, sat her there
Beside her Basil, weeping through her hair.
Yet they contriv'd to steal the Basil-pot,
    And to examine it in secret place:
The thing was vile with green and livid spot,
    And yet they knew it was Lorenzo's face:
The guerdon of their murder they had got,
    And so left Florence in a moment's space,
Never to turn again.—Away they went,
With blood upon their heads, to banishment.
O Melancholy, turn thine eyes away!
    O Music, Music, breathe despondingly!
O Echo, Echo, on some other day,
    From isles Lethean, sigh to us—O sigh!
Spirits of grief, sing not your “Well-a-way!”
    For Isabel, sweet Isabel, will die;
Will die a death too lone and incomplete,
Now they have ta'en away her Basil sweet.
Piteous she look'd on dead and senseless things,
    Asking for her lost Basil amorously;
And with melodious chuckle in the strings
    Of her lorn voice, she oftentimes would cry
After the Pilgrim in his wanderings,
    To ask him where her Basil was; and why
'Twas hid from her: “For cruel 'tis,” said she,
“To steal my Basil-pot away from me.”
And so she pined, and so she died forlorn,
    Imploring for her Basil to the last.
No heart was there in Florence but did mourn
    In pity of her love, so overcast.
And a sad ditty of this story born
    From mouth to mouth through all the country pass'd:
Still is the burthen sung—“O cruelty,
“To steal my Basil-pot away from me!”



UPON a time, before the faery broods
Drove Nymph and Satyr from the prosperous woods,
Before King Oberon's bright diadem,
Sceptre, and mantle, clasp'd with dewy gem,
Frighted away the Dryads and the Fauns
From rushes green, and brakes, and cowslip'd lawns,
The ever-smitten Hermes empty left
His golden throne, bent warm on amorous theft:
From high Olympus had he stolen light,
On this side of Jove's clouds, to escape the sight
Of his great summoner, and made retreat
Into a forest on the shores of Crete.
For somewhere in that sacred island dwelt
A nymph, to whom all hoofed Satyrs knelt;
At whose white feet the languid Tritons poured
Pearls, while on land they wither'd and adored.
Fast by the springs where she to bathe was wont,
And in those meads where sometime she might haunt,
Were strewn rich gifts, unknown to any Muse,
Though Fancy's casket were unlock'd to choose.
Ah, what a world of love was at her feet!
So Hermes thought, and a celestial heat
Burnt from his winged heels to either ear,
That from a whiteness, as the lily clear,
Blush'd into roses 'mid his golden hair,
Fallen in jealous curls about his shoulders bare.
From vale to vale, from wood to wood, he flew,
Breathing upon the flowers his passion new,
And wound with many a river to its head,
To find where this sweet nymph prepar'd her secret bed:
In vain; the sweet nymph might nowhere be found,
And so he rested, on the lonely ground,
Pensive, and full of painful jealousies
Of the Wood-Gods, and even the very trees.
There as he stood, he heard a mournful voice,
Such as once heard, in gentle heart, destroys
All pain but pity: thus the lone voice spake:
“When from this wreathed tomb shall I awake!
“When move in a sweet body fit for life,
“And love, and pleasure, and the ruddy strife
“Of hearts and lips! Ah, miserable me!”
The God, dove-footed, glided silently
Round bush and tree, soft-brushing, in his speed,
The taller grasses and full-flowering weed,
Until he found a palpitating snake,
Bright, and cirque-couchant in a dusky brake.
She was a gordian shape of dazzling hue,
Vermilion-spotted, golden, green, and blue;
Striped like a zebra, freckled like a pard,
Eyed like a peacock, and all crimson barr'd;
And full of silver moons, that, as she breathed,
Dissolv'd, or brighter shone, or interwreathed
Their lustres with the gloomier tapestries—
So rainbow-sided, touch'd with miseries,
She seem'd, at once, some penanced lady elf,
Some demon's mistress, or the demon's self.
Upon her crest she wore a wannish fire
Sprinkled with stars, like Ariadne's tiar:
Her head was serpent, but ah, bitter-sweet!
She had a woman's mouth with all its pearls complete:
And for her eyes: what could such eyes do there
But weep, and weep, that they were born so fair?
As Proserpine still weeps for her Sicilian air.
Her throat was serpent, but the words she spake
Came, as through bubbling honey, for Love's sake,
And thus; while Hermes on his pinions lay,
Like a stoop'd falcon ere he takes his prey.
“Fair Hermes, crown'd with feathers, fluttering light,
“I had a splendid dream of thee last night:
“I saw thee sitting, on a throne of gold,
“Among the Gods, upon Olympus old,
“The only sad one; for thou didst not hear
“The soft, lute-finger'd Muses chaunting clear,
“Nor even Apollo when he sang alone,
“Deaf to his throbbing throat's long, long melodious moan.
“I dreamt I saw thee, robed in purple flakes,
“Break amorous through the clouds, as morning breaks,
“And, swiftly as a bright Phœbean dart,
“Strike for the Cretan isle; and here thou art!
“Too gentle Hermes, hast thou found the maid?”
Whereat the star of Lethe not delay'd
His rosy eloquence, and thus inquired:
“Thou smooth-lipp'd serpent, surely high inspired!
“Thou beauteous wreath, with melancholy eyes,
“Possess whatever bliss thou canst devise,
“Telling me only where my nymph is fled,—
“Where she doth breathe!” “Bright planet, thou hast said,”
Return'd the snake, “but seal with oaths, fair God!”
“I swear,” said Hermes, “by my serpent rod,
“And by thine eyes, and by thy starry crown!”
Light flew his earnest words, among the blossoms blown.
Then thus again the brilliance feminine:
“Too frail of heart! for this lost nymph of thine,
“Free as the air, invisibly, she strays
“About these thornless wilds; her pleasant days
“She tastes unseen; unseen her nimble feet
“Leave traces in the grass and flowers sweet;
“From weary tendrils, and bow'd branches green,
“She plucks the fruit unseen, she bathes unseen:
“And by my power is her beauty veil'd
“To keep it unaffronted, unassail'd
“By the love-glances of unlovely eyes,
“Of Satyrs, Fauns, and blear'd Silenus' sighs.
“Pale grew her immortality, for woe
“Of all these lovers, and she grieved so
“I took compassion on her, bade her steep
“Her hair in weïrd syrops, that would keep
“Her loveliness invisible, yet free
“To wander as she loves, in liberty.
“Thou shalt behold her, Hermes, thou alone,
“If thou wilt, as thou swearest, grant my boon!”
Then, once again, the charmed God began
An oath, and through the serpent's ears it ran
Warm, tremulous, devout, psalterian.
Ravish'd, she lifted her Circean head,
Blush'd a live damask, and swift-lisping said,
“I was a woman, let me have once more
“A woman's shape, and charming as before.
“I love a youth of Corinth—O the bliss!
“Give me my woman's form, and place me where he is.
“Stoop, Hermes, let me breathe upon thy brow,
“And thou shalt see thy sweet nymph even now.”
The God on half-shut feathers sank serene,
She breath'd upon his eyes, and swift was seen
Of both the guarded nymph near-smiling on the green.
It was no dream; or say a dream it was,
Real are the dreams of Gods, and smoothly pass
Their pleasures in a long immortal dream.
One warm, flush'd moment, hovering, it might seem
Dash'd by the wood-nymph's beauty, so he burn'd;
Then, lighting on the printless verdure, turn'd
To the swoon'd serpent, and with languid arm,
Delicate, put to proof the lythe Caducean charm.
So done, upon the nymph his eyes he bent
Full of adoring tears and blandishment,
And towards her stept: she, like a moon in wane,
Faded before him, cower'd, nor could restrain
Her fearful sobs, self-folding like a flower
That faints into itself at evening hour:
But the God fostering her chilled hand,
She felt the warmth, her eyelids open'd bland,
And, like new flowers at morning song of bees,
Bloom'd, and gave up her honey to the lees.
Into the green-recessed woods they flew;
Nor grew they pale, as mortal lovers do.
Left to herself, the serpent now began
To change; her elfin blood in madness ran,
Her mouth foam'd, and the grass, therewith besprent,
Wither'd at dew so sweet and virulent;
Her eyes in torture fix'd, and anguish drear,
Hot, glaz'd, and wide, with lid-lashes all sear,
Flash'd phosphor and sharp sparks, without one cooling tear.
The colours all inflam'd throughout her train,
She writh'd about, convuls'd with scarlet pain:
A deep volcanian yellow took the place
Of all her milder-mooned body's grace;
And, as the lava ravishes the mead,
Spoilt all her silver mail, and golden brede;
Made gloom of all her frecklings, streaks and bars,
Eclips'd her crescents, and lick'd up her stars:
So that, in moments few, she was undrest
Of all her sapphires, greens, and amethyst,
And rubious-argent: of all these bereft,
Nothing but pain and ugliness were left.
Still shone her crown; that vanish'd, also she
Melted and disappear'd as suddenly;
And in the air, her new voice luting soft,
Cried, “Lycius! gentle Lycius!”—Borne aloft
With the bright mists about the mountains hoar
These words dissolv'd: Crete's forests heard no more.
Whither fled Lamia, now a lady bright,
A full-born beauty new and exquisite?
She fled into that valley they pass o'er
Who go to Corinth from Cenchreas' shore;
And rested at the foot of those wild hills,
The rugged founts of the Peræan rills,
And of that other ridge whose barren back
Stretches, with all its mist and cloudy rack,
South-westward to Cleone. There she stood
About a young bird's flutter from a wood,
Fair, on a sloping green of mossy tread,
By a clear pool, wherein she passioned
To see herself escap'd from so sore ills,
While her robes flaunted with the daffodils.
Ah, happy Lycius!—for she was a maid
More beautiful than ever twisted braid,
Or sigh'd, or blush'd, or on spring-flowered lea
Spread a green kirtle to the minstrelsy:
A virgin purest lipp'd, yet in the lore
Of love deep learned to the red heart's core:
Not one hour old, yet of sciential brain
To unperplex bliss from its neighbour pain;
Define their pettish limits, and estrange
Their points of contact, and swift counterchange;
Intrigue with the specious chaos, and dispart
Its most ambiguous atoms with sure art;
As though in Cupid's college she had spent
Sweet days a lovely graduate, still unshent,
And kept his rosy terms in idle languishment.
Why this fair creature chose so fairily
By the wayside to linger, we shall see;
But first 'tis fit to tell how she could muse
And dream, when in the serpent prison-house,
Of all she list, strange or magnificent:
How, ever, where she will'd, her spirit went;
Whether to faint Elysium, or where
Down through tress-lifting waves the Nereids fair
Wind into Thetis' bower by many a pearly stair;
Or where God Bacchus drains his cups divine,
Stretch'd out, at ease, beneath a glutinous pine;
Or where in Pluto's gardens palatine
Mulciber's columns gleam in far piazzian line.
And sometimes into cities she would send
Her dream, with feast and rioting to blend;
And once, while among mortals dreaming thus,
She saw the young Corinthian Lycius
Charioting foremost in the envious race,
Like a young Jove with calm uneager face,
And fell into a swooning love of him.
Now on the moth-time of that evening dim
He would return that way, as well she knew,
To Corinth from the shore; for freshly blew
The eastern soft wind, and his galley now
Grated the quaystones with her brazen prow
In port Cenchreas, from Egina isle
Fresh anchor'd; whither he had been awhile
To sacrifice to Jove, whose temple there
Waits with high marble doors for blood and incense rare.
Jove heard his vows, and better'd his desire;
For by some freakful chance he made retire
From his companions, and set forth to walk,
Perhaps grown wearied of their Corinth talk:
Over the solitary hills he fared,
Thoughtless at first, but ere eve's star appeared
His phantasy was lost, where reason fades,
In the calm'd twilight of Platonic shades.
Lamia beheld him coming, near, more near—
Close to her passing, in indifference drear,
His silent sandals swept the mossy green;
So neighbour'd to him, and yet so unseen
She stood: he pass'd, shut up in mysteries,
His mind wrapp'd like his mantle, while her eyes
Follow'd his steps, and her neck regal white
Turn'd—syllabling thus, “Ah, Lycius bright,
“And will you leave me on the hills alone?
“Lycius, look back! and be some pity shown.”
He did; not with cold wonder fearingly,
But Orpheus-like at an Eurydice;
For so delicious were the words she sung,
It seem'd he had lov'd them a whole summer long:
And soon his eyes had drunk her beauty up,
Leaving no drop in the bewildering cup,
And still the cup was full,—while he, afraid
Lest she should vanish ere his lip had paid
Due adoration, thus began to adore;
Her soft look growing coy, she saw his chain so sure:
“Leave thee alone! Look back! Ah, Goddess, see
“Whether my eyes can ever turn from thee!
“For pity do not this sad heart belie—
“Even as thou vanishest so I shall die.
“Stay! though a Naiad of the rivers, stay!
“To thy far wishes will thy streams obey:
“Stay! though the greenest woods be thy domain,
“Alone they can drink up the morning rain:
“Though a descended Pleiad, will not one
“Of thine harmonious sisters keep in tune
“Thy spheres, and as thy silver proxy shine?
“So sweetly to these ravish'd ears of mine
“Came thy sweet greeting, that if thou shouldst fade
“Thy memory will waste me to a shade:—
“For pity do not melt!”—“If I should stay,”
Said Lamia, “here, upon this floor of clay,
“And pain my steps upon these flowers too rough,
“What canst thou say or do of charm enough
“To dull the nice remembrance of my home?
“Thou canst not ask me with thee here to roam
“Over these hills and vales, where no joy is,—
“Empty of immortality and bliss!
“Thou art a scholar, Lycius, and must know
“That finer spirits cannot breathe below
“In human climes, and live: Alas! poor youth,
“What taste of purer air hast thou to soothe
“My essence? What serener palaces,
“Where I may all my many senses please,
“And by mysterious sleights a hundred thirsts appease?
“It cannot be—Adieu!” So said, she rose
Tiptoe with white arms spread. He, sick to lose
The amorous promise of her lone complain,
Swoon'd, murmuring of love, and pale with pain.
The cruel lady, without any show
Of sorrow for her tender favourite's woe,
But rather, if her eyes could brighter be,
With brighter eyes and slow amenity,
Put her new lips to his, and gave afresh
The life she had so tangled in her mesh:
And as he from one trance was wakening
Into another, she began to sing,
Happy in beauty, life, and love, and every thing,
A song of love, too sweet for earthly lyres,
While, like held breath, the stars drew in their panting fires.
And then she whisper'd in such trembling tone,
As those who, safe together met alone
For the first time through many anguish'd days,
Use other speech than looks; bidding him raise
His drooping head, and clear his soul of doubt,
For that she was a woman, and without
Any more subtle fluid in her veins
Than throbbing blood, and that the self-same pains
Inhabited her frail-strung heart as his.
And next she wonder'd how his eyes could miss
Her face so long in Corinth, where, she said,
She dwelt but half retir'd, and there had led
Days happy as the gold coin could invent
Without the aid of love; yet in content
Till she saw him, as once she pass'd him by,
Where 'gainst a column he leant thoughtfully
At Venus' temple porch, 'mid baskets heap'd
Of amorous herbs and flowers, newly reap'd
Late on that eve, as 'twas the night before
The Adonian feast; whereof she saw no more,
But wept alone those days, for why should she adore?
Lycius from death awoke into amaze,
To see her still, and singing so sweet lays;
Then from amaze into delight he fell
To hear her whisper woman's lore so well;
And every word she spake entic'd him on
To unperplex'd delight and pleasure known.
Let the mad poets say whate'er they please
Of the sweets of Fairies, Peris, Goddesses,
There is not such a treat among them all,
Haunters of cavern, lake, and waterfall,
As a real woman, lineal indeed
From Pyrrha's pebbles or old Adam's seed.
Thus gentle Lamia judg'd, and judg'd aright,
That Lycius could not love in half a fright,
So threw the goddess off, and won his heart
More pleasantly by playing woman's part,
With no more awe than what her beauty gave,
That, while it smote, still guaranteed to save.
Lycius to all made eloquent reply,
Marrying to every word a twinborn sigh;
And last, pointing to Corinth, ask'd her sweet,
If 'twas too far that night for her soft feet.
The way was short, for Lamia's eagerness
Made, by a spell, the triple league decrease
To a few paces; not at all surmised
By blinded Lycius, so in her comprized.
They pass'd the city gates, he knew not how,
So noiseless, and he never thought to know.
As men talk in a dream, so Corinth all,
Throughout her palaces imperial,
And all her populous streets and temples lewd,
Mutter'd, like tempest in the distance brew'd,
To the wide-spreaded night above her towers.
Men, women, rich and poor, in the cool hours,
Shuffled their sandals o'er the pavement white,
Companion'd or alone; while many a light
Flared, here and there, from wealthy festivals,
And threw their moving shadows on the walls,
Or found them cluster'd in the corniced shade
Of some arch'd temple door, or dusky colonnade.
Muffling his face, of greeting friends in fear,
Her fingers he press'd hard, as one came near
With curl'd gray beard, sharp eyes, and smooth bald crown,
Slow-stepp'd, and robed in philosophic gown:
Lycius shrank closer, as they met and past,
Into his mantle, adding wings to haste,
While hurried Lamia trembled: “Ah,” said he,
“Why do you shudder, love, so ruefully?
“Why does your tender palm dissolve in dew?”—
“I'm wearied,” said fair Lamia: “tell me who
“Is that old man? I cannot bring to mind
“His features:—Lycius! wherefore did you blind
“Yourself from his quick eyes?” Lycius replied,
“'Tis Apollonius sage, my trusty guide
“And good instructor; but to-night he seems
“The ghost of folly haunting my sweet dreams.
While yet he spake they had arrived before
A pillar'd porch, with lofty portal door,
Where hung a silver lamp, whose phosphor glow
Reflected in the slabbed steps below,
Mild as a star in water; for so new,
And so unsullied was the marble hue,
So through the crystal polish, liquid fine,
Ran the dark veins, that none but feet divine
Could e'er have touch'd there. Sounds Æolian
Breath'd from the hinges, as the ample span
Of the wide doors disclos'd a place unknown
Some time to any, but those two alone,
And a few Persian mutes, who that same year
Were seen about the markets: none knew where
They could inhabit; the most curious
Were foil'd, who watch'd to trace them to their house:
And but the flitter-winged verse must tell,
For truth's sake, what woe afterwards befel,
'Twould humour many a heart to leave them thus,
Shut from the busy world of more incredulous.
LOVE in a hut, with water and a crust,
Is—Love, forgive us!—cinders, ashes, dust;
Love in a palace is perhaps at last
More grievous torment than a hermit's fast:—
That is a doubtful tale from faery land,
Hard for the non-elect to understand.
Had Lycius liv'd to hand his story down,
He might have given the moral a fresh frown,
Or clench'd it quite: but too short was their bliss
To breed distrust and hate, that make the soft voice hiss.
Besides, there, nightly, with terrific glare,
Love, jealous grown of so complete a pair,
Hover'd and buzz'd his wings, with fearful roar,
Above the lintel of their chamber door,
And down the passage cast a glow upon the floor.
For all this came a ruin: side by side
They were enthroned, in the even tide,
Upon a couch, near to a curtaining
Whose airy texture, from a golden string,
Floated into the room, and let appear
Unveil'd the summer heaven, blue and clear,
Betwixt two marble shafts:—there they reposed,
Where use had made it sweet, with eyelids closed,
Saving a tythe which love still open kept,
That they might see each other while they almost slept;
When from the slope side of a suburb hill,
Deafening the swallow's twitter, came a thrill
Of trumpets—Lycius started—the sounds fled,
But left a thought, a buzzing in his head.
For the first time, since first he harbour'd in
That purple-lined palace of sweet sin,
His spirit pass'd beyond its golden bourn
Into the noisy world almost forsworn.
The lady, ever watchful, penetrant,
Saw this with pain, so arguing a want
Of something more, more than her empery
Of joys; and she began to moan and sigh
Because he mused beyond her, knowing well
That but a moment's thought is passion's passing bell.
“Why do you sigh, fair creature?” whisper'd he:
“Why do you think?” return'd she tenderly:
“You have deserted me;—where am I now?
“Not in your heart while care weighs on your brow:
“No, no, you have dismiss'd me; and I go
“From your breast houseless: ay, it must be so.”
He answer'd, bending to her open eyes,
Where he was mirror'd small in paradise,
“My silver planet, both of eve and morn!
“Why will you plead yourself so sad forlorn,
“While I am striving how to fill my heart
“With deeper crimson, and a double smart?
“How to entangle, trammel up and snare
“Your soul in mine, and labyrinth you there
“Like the hid scent in an unbudded rose?
“Ay, a sweet kiss—you see your mighty woes.
“My thoughts! shall I unveil them? Listen then!
“What mortal hath a prize, that other men
“May be confounded and abash'd withal,
“But lets it sometimes pace abroad majestical,
“And triumph, as in thee I should rejoice
“Amid the hoarse alarm of Corinth's voice.
“Let my foes choke, and my friends shout afar,
“While through the thronged streets your bridal car
“Wheels round its dazzling spokes.”—The lady's cheek
Trembled; she nothing said, but, pale and meek,
Arose and knelt before him, wept a rain
Of sorrows at his words; at last with pain
Beseeching him, the while his hand she wrung,
To change his purpose. He thereat was stung,
Perverse, with stronger fancy to reclaim
Her wild and timid nature to his aim:
Besides, for all his love, in self despite,
Against his better self, he took delight
Luxurious in her sorrows, soft and new.
His passion, cruel grown, took on a hue
Fierce and sanguineous as 'twas possible
In one whose brow had no dark veins to swell.
Fine was the mitigated fury, like
Apollo's presence when in act to strike
The serpent—Ha, the serpent! certes, she
Was none. She burnt, she lov'd the tyranny,
And, all subdued, consented to the hour
When to the bridal he should lead his paramour.
Whispering in midnight silence, said the youth,
“Sure some sweet name thou hast, though, by my truth,
“I have not ask'd it, ever thinking thee
“Not mortal, but of heavenly progeny,
“As still I do. Hast any mortal name,
“Fit appellation for this dazzling frame?
“Or friends or kinsfolk on the citied earth,
“To share our marriage feast and nuptial mirth?”
“I have no friends,” said Lamia, “no, not one;
“My presence in wide Corinth hardly known:
“My parents' bones are in their dusty urns
“Sepulchred, where no kindled incense burns,
“Seeing all their luckless race are dead, save me,
“And I neglect the holy rite for thee.
“Even as you list invite your many guests;
“But if, as now it seems, your vision rests
“With any pleasure on me, do not bid
“Old Apollonius—from him keep me hid.”
Lycius, perplex'd at words so blind and blank,
Made close inquiry; from whose touch she shrank,
Feigning a sleep; and he to the dull shade
Of deep sleep in a moment was betray'd.
It was the custom then to bring away
The bride from home at blushing shut of day,
Veil'd, in a chariot, heralded along
By strewn flowers, torches, and a marriage song,
With other pageants: but this fair unknown
Had not a friend. So being left alone,
(Lycius was gone to summon all his kin)
And knowing surely she could never win
His foolish heart from its mad pompousness,
She set herself, high-thoughted, how to dress
The misery in fit magnificence.
She did so, but 'tis doubtful how and whence
Came, and who were her subtle servitors.
About the halls, and to and from the doors,
There was a noise of wings, till in short space
The glowing banquet-room shone with wide-arched grace.
A haunting music, sole perhaps and lone
Supportress of the faery-roof, made moan
Throughout, as fearful the whole charm might fade.
Fresh carved cedar, mimicking a glade
Of palm and plantain, met from either side,
High in the midst, in honour of the bride:
Two palms and then two plantains, and so on,
From either side their stems branch'd one to one
All down the aisled place; and beneath all
There ran a stream of lamps straight on from wall to wall.
So canopied, lay an untasted feast
Teeming with odours. Lamia, regal drest,
Silently paced about, and as she went,
In pale contented sort of discontent,
Mission'd her viewless servants to enrich
The fretted splendour of each nook and niche.
Between the tree-stems, marbled plain at first,
Came jasper pannels; then, anon, there burst
Forth creeping imagery of slighter trees,
And with the larger wove in small intricacies.
Approving all, she faded at self-will,
And shut the chamber up, close, hush'd and still,
Complete and ready for the revels rude,
When dreadful guests would come to spoil her solitude.
The day appear'd, and all the gossip rout.
O senseless Lycius! Madman! wherefore flout
The silent-blessing fate, warm cloister'd hours,
And show to common eyes these secret bowers?
The herd approach'd; each guest, with busy brain,
Arriving at the portal, gaz'd amain,
And enter'd marveling: for they knew the street,
Remember'd it from childhood all complete
Without a gap, yet ne'er before had seen
That royal porch, that high-built fair demesne;
So in they hurried all, maz'd, curious and keen:
Save one, who look'd thereon with eye severe,
And with calm-planted steps walk'd in austere;
'Twas Apollonius: something too he laugh'd,
As though some knotty problem, that had daft
His patient thought, had now begun to thaw,
And solve and melt:—'twas just as he foresaw.
He met within the murmurous vestibule
His young disciple. “'Tis no common rule,
“Lycius,” said he, “for uninvited guest
“To force himself upon you, and infest
“With an unbidden presence the bright throng
“Of younger friends; yet must I do this wrong,
“And you forgive me.” Lycius blush'd, and led
The old man through the inner doors broad-spread;
With reconciling words and courteous mien
Turning into sweet milk the sophist's spleen.
Of wealthy lustre was the banquet-room,
Fill'd with pervading brilliance and perfume:
Before each lucid pannel fuming stood
A censer fed with myrrh and spiced wood,
Each by a sacred tripod held aloft,
Whose slender feet wide-swerv'd upon the soft
Wool-woofed carpets: fifty wreaths of smoke
From fifty censers their light voyage took
To the high roof, still mimick'd as they rose
Along the mirror'd walls by twin-clouds odorous.
Twelve sphered tables, by silk seats insphered,
High as the level of a man's breast rear'd
On libbard's paws, upheld the heavy gold
Of cups and goblets, and the store thrice told
Of Ceres' horn, and, in huge vessels, wine
Come from the gloomy tun with merry shine.
Thus loaded with a feast the tables stood,
Each shrining in the midst the image of a God.
When in an antichamber every guest
Had felt the cold full sponge to pleasure press'd,
By minist'ring slaves, upon his hands and feet,
And fragrant oils with ceremony meet
Pour'd on his hair, they all mov'd to the feast
In white robes, and themselves in order placed
Around the silken couches, wondering
Whence all this mighty cost and blaze of wealth could spring.
Soft went the music the soft air along,
While fluent Greek a vowel'd undersong
Kept up among the guests, discoursing low
At first, for scarcely was the wine at flow;
But when the happy vintage touch'd their brains,
Louder they talk, and louder come the strains
Of powerful instruments:—the gorgeous dyes,
The space, the splendour of the draperies,
The roof of awful richness, nectarous cheer,
Beautiful slaves, and Lamia's self, appear,
Now, when the wine has done its rosy deed,
And every soul from human trammels freed,
No more so strange; for merry wine, sweet wine,
Will make Elysian shades not too fair, too divine.
Soon was God Bacchus at meridian height;
Flush'd were their cheeks, and bright eyes double bright:
Garlands of every green, and every scent
From vales deflower'd, or forest-trees branch-rent,
In baskets of bright osier'd gold were brought
High as the handles heap'd, to suit the thought
Of every guest; that each, as he did please,
Might fancy-fit his brows, silk-pillow'd at his ease.
What wreath for Lamia? What for Lycius?
What for the sage, old Apollonius?
Upon her aching forehead be there hung
The leaves of willow and of adder's tongue;
And for the youth, quick, let us strip for him
The thyrsus, that his watching eyes may swim
Into forgetfulness; and, for the sage,
Let spear-grass and the spiteful thistle wage
War on his temples. Do not all charms fly
At the mere touch of cold philosophy?
There was an awful rainbow once in heaven:
We know her woof, her texture; she is given
In the dull catalogue of common things.
Philosophy will clip an Angel's wings,
Conquer all mysteries by rule and line,
Empty the haunted air, and gnomed mine—
Unweave a rainbow, as it erewhile made
The tender-person'd Lamia melt into a shade.
By her glad Lycius sitting, in chief place,
Scarce saw in all the room another face,
Till, checking his love trance, a cup he took
Full brimm'd, and opposite sent forth a look
'Cross the broad table, to beseech a glance
From his old teacher's wrinkled countenance,
And pledge him. The bald-head philosopher
Had fix'd his eye, without a twinkle or stir
Full on the alarmed beauty of the bride,
Brow-beating her fair form, and troubling her sweet pride.
Lycius then press'd her hand, with devout touch,
As pale it lay upon the rosy couch:
'Twas icy, and the cold ran through his veins;
Then sudden it grew hot, and all the pains
Of an unnatural heat shot to his heart.
“Lamia, what means this? Wherefore dost thou start?
“Know'st thou that man?” Poor Lamia answer'd not.
He gaz'd into her eyes, and not a jot
Own'd they the lovelorn piteous appeal:
More, more he gaz'd: his human senses reel:
Some hungry spell that loveliness absorbs;
There was no recognition in those orbs.
“Lamia!” he cried—and no soft-toned reply.
The many heard, and the loud revelry
Grew hush; the stately music no more breathes;
The myrtle sicken'd in a thousand wreaths.
By faint degrees, voice, lute, and pleasure ceased;
A deadly silence step by step increased,
Until it seem'd a horrid presence there,
And not a man but felt the terror in his hair.
“Lamia!” he shriek'd; and nothing but the shriek
With its sad echo did the silence break.
“Begone, foul dream!” he cried, gazing again
In the bride's face, where now no azure vein
Wander'd on fair-spaced temples; no soft bloom
Misted the cheek; no passion to illume
The deep-recessed vision:—all was blight;
Lamia, no longer fair, there sat a deadly white.
“Shut, shut those juggling eyes, thou ruthless man!
“Turn them aside, wretch! or the righteous ban
“Of all the Gods, whose dreadful images
“Here represent their shadowy presences,
“May pierce them on the sudden with the thorn
“Of painful blindness; leaving thee forlorn,
“In trembling dotage to the feeblest fright
“Of conscience, for their long offended might,
“For all thine impious proud-heart sophistries,
“Unlawful magic, and enticing lies.
“Corinthians! look upon that gray-beard wretch!
“Mark how, possess'd, his lashless eyelids stretch
“Around his demon eyes! Corinthians, see!
“My sweet bride withers at their potency.”
“Fool!” said the sophist, in an under-tone
Gruff with contempt; which a death-nighing moan
From Lycius answer'd, as heart-struck and lost,
He sank supine beside the aching ghost.
“Fool! Fool!” repeated he, while his eyes still
Relented not, nor mov'd; “from every ill
“Of life have I preserv'd thee to this day,
“And shall I see thee made a serpent's prey?
Then Lamia breath'd death breath; the sophist's eye,
Like a sharp spear, went through her utterly,
Keen, cruel, perceant, stinging: she, as well
As her weak hand could any meaning tell,
Motion'd him to be silent; vainly so,
He look'd and look'd again a level—No!
“A Serpent!” echoed he; no sooner said,
Than with a frightful scream she vanished:
And Lycius' arms were empty of delight,
As were his limbs of life, from that same night.
On the high couch he lay!—his friends came round—
Supported him—no pulse, or breath they found,
And, in its marriage robe, the heavy body wound. 




Sweet are the pleasures that to verse belong,
And doubly sweet a brotherhood in song;
Nor can remembrance, Mathew! bring to view
A fate more pleasing, a delight more true
Than that in which the brother Poets joy'd,
Who with combined powers, their wit employ'd
To raise a trophy to the drama's muses.
The thought of this great partnership diffuses
Over the genius loving heart, a feeling
Of all that's high, and great, and good, and healing.
Too partial friend! fain would I follow thee
Past each horizon of fine poesy;
Fain would I echo back each pleasant note
As o'er Sicilian seas, clear anthems float
'Mong the light skimming gondolas far parted,
Just when the sun his farewell beam has darted:
But 'tis impossible; far different cares
Beckon me sternly from soft “Lydian airs,”
And hold my faculties so long in thrall,
That I am oft in doubt whether at all
I shall again see Phœbus in the morning:
Or flush'd Aurora in the roseate dawning!
Or a white Naiad in a rippling stream;
Or a rapt seraph in a moonlight beam;
Or again witness what with thee I've seen,
The dew by fairy feet swept from the green,
After a night of some quaint jubilee
Which every elf and fay had come to see:
When bright processions took their airy march
Beneath the curved moon's triumphal arch.
But might I now each passing moment give
To the coy muse, with me she would not live
In this dark city, nor would condescend
'Mid contradictions her delights to lend.
Should e'er the fine-eyed maid to me be kind,
Ah! surely it must be whene'er I find
Some flowery spot, sequester'd, wild, romantic,
That often must have seen a poet frantic;
Where oaks, that erst the Druid knew, are growing,
And flowers, the glory of one day, are blowing;
Where the dark-leav'd laburnum's drooping clusters
Reflect athwart the stream their yellow lustres,
And intertwined the cassia's arms unite,
With its own drooping buds, but very white.
Where on one side are covert branches hung,
'Mong which the nightingales have always sung
In leafy quiet: where to pry, aloof,
Atween the pillars of the sylvan roof,
Would be to find where violet beds were nestling,
And where the bee with cowslip bells was wrestling
There must be too a ruin dark, and gloomy,
To say “joy not too much in all that's bloomy.”
Yet this is vain—O Mathew lend thy aid
To find a place where I may greet the maid—
Where we may soft humanity put on,
And sit, and rhyme and think on Chatterton;
And that warm-hearted Shakspeare sent to meet him
Four laurell'd spirits, heaven-ward to intreat him.
With reverence would we speak of all the sages
Who have left streaks of light athwart their ages:
And thou shouldst moralize on Milton's blindness,
And mourn the fearful dearth of human kindness
To those who strove with the bright golden wing
Of genius, to flap away each sting
Thrown by the pitiless world. We next could tell
Of those who in the cause of freedom fell;
Of our own Alfred, of Helvetian Tell;
Of him whose name to ev'ry heart's a solace,
High-minded and unbending William Wallace.
While to the rugged north our musing turns
We well might drop a tear for him, and Burns.
Felton! without incitements such as these,
How vain for me the niggard Muse to tease:
For thee, she will thy every dwelling grace,
And make “a sun-shine in a shady place:”
For thou wast once a flowret blooming wild,
Close to the source, bright, pure, and undefil'd,
Whence gush the streams of song: in happy hour
Came chaste Diana from her shady bower,
Just as the sun was from the east uprising;
And, as for him some gift she was devising,
Beheld thee, pluck'd thee, cast thee in the stream
To meet her glorious brother's greeting beam.
I marvel much that thou hast never told
How, from a flower, into a fish of gold
Apollo chang'd thee; how thou next didst seem
A black-eyed swan upon the widening stream;
And when thou first didst in that mirror trace
The placid features of a human face:
That thou hast never told thy travels strange,
And all the wonders of the mazy range
O'er pebbly crystal, and o'er golden sands;
Kissing thy daily food from Naiad's pearly hands.



When by my solitary hearth I sit,
    And hateful thoughts enwrap my soul in gloom;
When no fair dreams before my “mind's eye” flit,
    And the bare heath of life presents no bloom;
        Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
        And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head.
Whene'er I wander, at the fall of night,
    Where woven boughs shut out the moon's bright ray,
Should sad Despondency my musings fright,
    And frown, to drive fair Cheerfulness away,
        Peep with the moon-beams through the leafy roof,
        And keep that fiend Despondence far aloof.
Should Disappointment, parent of Despair,
    Strive for her son to seize my careless heart;
When, like a cloud, he sits upon the air,
    Preparing on his spell-bound prey to dart:
        Chace him away, sweet Hope, with visage bright,
        And fright him as the morning frightens night!
Whene'er the fate of those I hold most dear
    Tells to my fearful breast a tale of sorrow,
O bright-eyed Hope, my morbid fancy cheer;
    Let me awhile thy sweetest comforts borrow:
        Thy heaven-born radiance around me shed,
        And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
Should e'er unhappy love my bosom pain,
    From cruel parents, or relentless fair;
O let me think it is not quite in vain
    To sigh out sonnets to the midnight air!
        Sweet Hope, ethereal balm upon me shed,
        And wave thy silver pinions o'er my head!
In the long vista of the years to roll,
    Let me not see our country's honour fade:
O let me see our land retain her soul,
    Her pride, her freedom; and not freedom's shade.
        From thy bright eyes unusual brightness shed—
        Beneath thy pinions canopy my head!
Let me not see the patriot's high bequest,
    Great Liberty! how great in plain attire!
With the base purple of a court oppress'd,
    Bowing her head, and ready to expire:
        But let me see thee stoop from heaven on wings
        That fill the skies with silver glitterings!
And as, in sparkling majesty, a star
    Gilds the bright summit of some gloomy cloud;
Brightening the half veil'd face of heaven afar:
    So, when dark thoughts my boding spirit shroud,
        Sweet Hope, celestial influence round me shed,
        Waving thy silver pinions o'er my head.



    Now Morning from her orient chamber came,
    And her first footsteps touch'd a verdant hill;
    Crowning its lawny crest with amber flame,
    Silv'ring the untainted gushes of its rill;
    Which, pure from mossy beds, did down distill,
    And after parting beds of simple flowers,
    By many streams a little lake did fill,
    Which round its marge reflected woven bowers,
And, in its middle space, a sky that never lowers.
    There the king-fisher saw his plumage bright
    Vieing with fish of brilliant dye below;
    Whose silken fins, and golden scales' light
    Cast upward, through the waves, a ruby glow:
    There saw the swan his neck of arched snow,
    And oar'd himself along with majesty;
    Sparkled his jetty eyes; his feet did show
    Beneath the waves like Afric's ebony,
And on his back a fay reclined voluptuously.
    Ah! could I tell the wonders of an isle
    That in that fairest lake had placed been,
    I could e'en Dido of her grief beguile;
    Or rob from aged Lear his bitter teen:
    For sure so fair a place was never seen,
    Of all that ever charm'd romantic eye:
    It seem'd an emerald in the silver sheen
    Of the bright waters; or as when on high,
Through clouds of fleecy white, laughs the cœrulean sky.
    And all around it dipp'd luxuriously
    Slopings of verdure through the glossy tide,
    Which, as it were in gentle amity,
    Rippled delighted up the flowery side;
    As if to glean the ruddy tears, it tried,
    Which fell profusely from the rose-tree stem!
    Haply it was the workings of its pride,
    In strife to throw upon the shore a gem
Outvieing all the buds in Flora's diadem.



Woman! when I behold thee flippant, vain,
    Inconstant, childish, proud, and full of fancies;
    Without that modest softening that enhances
The downcast eye, repentant of the pain
That its mild light creates to heal again:
    E'en then, elate, my spirit leaps, and prances,
    E'en then my soul with exultation dances
For that to love, so long, I've dormant lain:
But when I see thee meek, and kind, and tender,
    Heavens! how desperately do I adore
Thy winning graces;—to be thy defender
    I hotly burn—to be a Calidore—
A very Red Cross Knight—a stout Leander—
    Might I be loved by thee like these of yore.
Light feet, dark violet eyes, and parted hair;
    Soft dimpled hands, white neck, and creamy breast,
    Are things on which the dazzled senses rest
Till the fond, fixed eyes, forget they stare.
From such fine pictures, heavens! I cannot dare
    To turn my admiration, though unpossess'd
    They be of what is worthy,—though not drest
In lovely modesty, and virtues rare.
Yet these I leave as thoughtless as a lark;
    These lures I straight forget,—e'en ere I dine,
Or thrice my palate moisten: but when I mark
    Such charms with mild intelligences shine,
My ear is open like a greedy shark,
    To catch the tunings of a voice divine.
Ah! who can e'er forget so fair a being?
    Who can forget her half retiring sweets?
    God! she is like a milk-white lamb that bleats
For man's protection. Surely the All-seeing,
Who joys to see us with his gifts agreeing,
    Will never give him pinions, who intreats
    Such innocence to ruin,—who vilely cheats
A dove-like bosom. In truth there is no freeing
One's thoughts from such a beauty; when I hear
    A lay that once I saw her hand awake,
Her form seems floating palpable, and near;
    Had I e'er seen her from an arbour take
A dewy flower, oft would that hand appear,
    And o'er my eyes the trembling moisture shake.



Many the wonders I this day have seen:
    The sun, when first he kist away the tears
    That fill'd the eyes of morn;—the laurel'd peers
Who from the feathery gold of evening lean;—
The ocean with its vastness, its blue green,
    Its ships, its rocks, its caves, its hopes, its fears,—
    Its voice mysterious, which whoso hears
Must think on what will be, and what has been.
E'en now, dear George, while this for you I write,
    Cynthia is from her silken curtains peeping
So scantly, that it seems her bridal night,
    And she her half-discover'd revels keeping.
But what, without the social thought of thee,
Would be the wonders of the sky and sea?



Had I a man's fair form, then might my sighs
    Be echoed swiftly through that ivory shell
    Thine ear, and find thy gentle heart; so well
Would passion arm me for the enterprize:
But ah! I am no knight whose foeman dies;
    No cuirass glistens on my bosom's swell;
    I am no happy shepherd of the dell
Whose lips have trembled with a maiden's eyes.
Yet must I dote upon thee,—call thee sweet,
    Sweeter by far than Hybla's honied roses
        When steep'd in dew rich to intoxication.
Ah! I will taste that dew, for me 'tis meet,
    And when the moon her pallid face discloses,
        I'll gather some by spells, and incantation.



    In thy western halls of gold
        When thou sittest in thy state,
    Bards, that erst sublimely told
        Heroic deeds, and sang of fate,
    With fervour seize their adamantine lyres,
Whose chords are solid rays, and twinkle radiant fires.
Here Homer with his nervous arms
    Strikes the twanging harp of war,
And even the western splendour warms,
    While the trumpets sound afar:
But, what creates the most intense surprise,
His soul looks out through renovated eyes.
    Then, through thy Temple wide, melodious swells
        The sweet majestic tone of Maro's lyre:
    The soul delighted on each accent dwells,—
        Enraptur'd dwells,—not daring to respire,
The while he tells of grief around a funeral pyre.
    'Tis awful silence then again;
        Expectant stand the spheres;
        Breathless the laurell'd peers,
    Nor move, till ends the lofty strain,
    Nor move till Milton's tuneful thunders cease,
And leave once more the ravish'd heavens in peace.
    Thou biddest Shakspeare wave his hand,
        And quickly forward spring
    The Passions—a terrific band—
        And each vibrates the string
    That with its tyrant temper best accords,
While from their Master's lips pour forth the inspiring words.
    A silver trumpet Spenser blows,
        And, as its martial notes to silence flee,
    From a virgin chorus flows
        A hymn in praise of spotless Chastity.
    'Tis still! Wild warblings from the Æolian lyre
Enchantment softly breathe, and tremblingly expire.
Next thy Tasso's ardent numbers
    Float along the pleased air,
Calling youth from idle slumbers,
    Rousing them from Pleasure's lair:—
Then o'er the strings his fingers gently move,
And melt the soul to pity and to love.
    But when Thou joinest with the Nine,
    And all the powers of song combine,
        We listen here on earth:
    The dying tones that fill the air,
    And charm the ear of evening fair,
From thee, great God of Bards, receive their heavenly birth.



O Peace! and dost thou with thy presence bless
    The dwellings of this war-surrounded Isle;
Soothing with placid brow our late distress,
    Making the triple kingdom brightly smile?
Joyful I hail thy presence; and I hail
    The sweet companions that await on thee;
Complete my joy—let not my first wish fail,
    Let the sweet mountain nymph thy favourite be,
With England's happiness proclaim Europa's Liberty.
O Europe! let not sceptred tyrants see
    That thou must shelter in thy former state;
Keep thy chains burst, and boldly say thou art free;
    Give thy kings law—leave not uncurbed the great;
    So with the horrors past thou'lt win thy happier fate!



Byron! how sweetly sad thy melody!
    Attuning still the soul to tenderness,
    As if soft Pity, with unusual stress,
Had touch'd her plaintive lute, and thou, being by,
Hadst caught the tones, nor suffer'd them to die.
    O'ershadowing sorrow doth not make thee less
    Delightful: thou thy griefs dost dress
With a bright halo, shining beamily,
As when a cloud the golden moon doth veil,
    Its sides are ting'd with a resplendent glow,
Through the dark robe oft amber rays prevail,
    And like fair veins in sable marble flow;
Still warble, dying swan! still tell the tale,
    The enchanting tale, the tale of pleasing woe.



Give me women, wine and snuff
Until I cry out “hold, enough
You may do so sans objection
Till the day of resurrection;
For bless my beard they aye shall be
My beloved Trinity.



I had a dove and the sweet dove died;
    And I have thought it died of grieving:
O, what could it grieve for? Its feet were tied,
    With a silken thread of my own hand's weaving;
Sweet little red feet! why should you die—
Why should you leave me, sweet bird! why?
You liv'd alone in the forest-tree,
Why, pretty thing! would you not live with me?
I kiss'd you oft and gave you white peas;
Why not live sweetly, as in the green trees?



As Hermes once took to his feathers light,
    When lulled Argus, baffled, swoon'd and slept,
So on a Delphic reed, my idle spright
    So play'd, so charm'd, so conquer'd, so bereft
The dragon-world of all its hundred eyes;
    And, seeing it asleep, so fled away—
Not to pure Ida with its snow-cold skies,
    Nor unto Tempe where Jove griev'd a day;
But to that second circle of sad hell,
    Where 'mid the gust, the whirlwind, and the flaw
Of rain and hail-stones, lovers need not tell
    Their sorrows. Pale were the sweet lips I saw,
Pale were the lips I kiss'd, and fair the form
I floated with, about that melancholy storm.



Pensive they sit, and roll their languid eyes,
Nibble their toast and cool their tea with sighs;
Or else forget the purpose of the night,
Forget their tea, forget their appetite.
See, with cross'd arms they sit—Ah! happy crew,
The fire is going out and no one rings
For coals, and therefore no coals Betty brings.
A fly is in the milk-pot. Must he die
Circled by a humane society?
No, no; there, Mr. Werter takes his spoon,
Inserts it, dips the handle, and lo! soon
The little straggler, sav'd from perils dark,
Across the teaboard draws a long wet mark.
Romeo! Arise, take snuffers by the handle,
There's a large cauliflower in each candle.
A winding sheet—ah, me! I must away
To No. 7, just beyond the circus gay.
Alas, my friend, your coat sits very well;
Where may your Tailor live? I may not tell.
O pardon me. I'm absent now and then.
Where might my Tailor live? I say again
I cannot tell, let me no more be teazed;
He lives in Wapping, might live where he pleased.



Think not of it, sweet one, so;—
    Give it not a tear;
Sigh thou mayst, and bid it go
    Any, any where.
Do not look so sad, sweet one,—
    Sad and fadingly;
Shed one drop, then it is gone,
    O 'twas born to die.
Still so pale? then dearest weep;
    Weep, I'll count the tears,
And each one shall be a bliss
    For thee in after years.
Brighter has it left thine eyes
    Than a sunny rill;
And thy whispering melodies
    Are tenderer still.
Yet—as all things mourn awhile
    At fleeting blisses,
Let us too! but be our dirge
    A dirge of kisses.



Hadst thou liv'd in days of old,
O what wonders had been told
Of thy lively countenance,
And thy humid eyes that dance
In the midst of their own brightness;
In the very fane of lightness.
Over which thine eyebrows, leaning,
Picture out each lovely meaning:
In a dainty bend they lie,
Like to streaks across the sky,
Or the feathers from a crow,
Fallen on a bed of snow.
Of thy dark hair that extends
Into many graceful bends:
As the leaves of Hellebore
Turn to whence they sprung before.
And behind each ample curl
Peeps the richness of a pearl.
Downward too flows many a tress
With a glossy waviness;
Full, and round like globes that rise
From the censer to the skies
Through sunny air. Add too, the sweetness
Of thy honied voice; the neatness
Of thine ankle lightly turn'd:
With those beauties, scarce discern'd,
Kept with such sweet privacy,
That they seldom meet the eye
Of the little loves that fly
Round about with eager pry.
Saving when, with freshening lave,
Thou dipp'st them in the taintless wave;
Like twin water lillies, born
In the coolness of the morn.
O, if thou hadst breathed then,
Now the Muses had been ten.
Couldst thou wish for lineage higher
Than twin sister of Thalia?
At least for ever, evermore,
Will I call the Graces four.
Hadst thou liv'd when chivalry
Lifted up her lance on high,
Tell me what thou wouldst have been?
Ah! I see the silver sheen
Of thy broidered, floating vest
Cov'ring half thine ivory breast;
Which, O heavens! I should see,
But that cruel destiny
Has placed a golden cuirass there;
Keeping secret what is fair.
Like sunbeams in a cloudlet nested
Thy locks in knightly casque are rested:
O'er which bend four milky plumes
Like the gentle lilly's blooms
Springing from a costly vase.
See with what a stately pace
Comes thine alabaster steed;
Servant of heroic deed!
O'er his loins, his trappings glow
Like the northern lights on snow.
Mount his back! thy sword unsheath!
Sign of the enchanter's death;
Bane of every wicked spell;
Silencer of dragon's yell.
Alas! thou this wilt never do:
Thou art an enchantress too,
And wilt surely never spill
Blood of those whose eyes can kill.



Where's the Poet? show him! show him,
Muses nine! that I may know him!
'Tis the man who with a man
    Is an equal, be he King,
Or poorest of the beggar-clan,
    Or any other wondrous thing
A man may be 'twixt ape and Plato;
    'Tis the man who with a bird,
Wren or Eagle, finds his way to
    All its instincts; he hath heard
The Lion's roaring, and can tell
    What his horny throat expresseth,
And to him the Tiger's yell
    Comes articulate and presseth
On his ear like mother-tongue.



Who loves to peer up at the morning sun,
    With half-shut eyes and comfortable cheek,
    Let him, with this sweet tale, full often seek
For meadows where the little rivers run;
Who loves to linger with that brightest one
    Of Heaven—Hesperus—let him lowly speak
    These numbers to the night, and starlight meek,
Or moon, if that her hunting be begun.
He who knows these delights, and too is prone
    To moralize upon a smile or tear,
Will find at once a region of his own,
    A bower for his spirit, and will steer
To alleys where the fir-tree drops its cone,
    Where robins hop, and fallen leaves are sear.



And what is love? It is a doll dress'd up
For idleness to cosset, nurse, and dandle;
A thing of soft misnomers, so divine
That silly youth doth think to make itself
Divine by loving, and so goes on
Yawning and doting a whole summer long,
Till Miss's comb is made a pearl tiara,
And common Wellingtons turn Romeo boots;
Then Cleopatra lives at number seven,
And Antony resides in Brunswick Square.
Fools! if some passions high have warm'd the world,
If Queens and Soldiers have play'd deep for hearts,
It is no reason why such agonies
Should be more common than the growth of weeds.
Fools! make me whole again that weighty pearl
The Queen of Egypt melted, and I'll say
That ye may love in spite of beaver hats.



“Under the flag
Of each his faction, they to battle bring
Their embryon atoms.”
Welcome joy, and welcome sorrow,
    Lethe's weed and Hermes' feather;
Come to-day, and come to-morrow,
    I do love you both together!
    I love to mark sad faces in fair weather;
And hear a merry laugh amid the thunder;
    Fair and foul I love together.
Meadows sweet where flames are under,
And a giggle at a wonder;
Visage sage at pantomime;
Funeral, and steeple-chime;
Infant playing with a skull;
Morning fair, and shipwreck'd hull;
Nightshade with the woodbine kissing;
Serpents in red roses hissing;
Cleopatra regal-dress'd
With the aspic at her breast;
Dancing music, music sad,
Both together, sane and mad;
Muses bright and muses pale;
Sombre Saturn, Momus hale;—
Laugh and sigh, and laugh again;
Oh the sweetness of the pain!
Muses bright, and muses pale,
Bare your faces of the veil;
Let me see; and let me write
Of the day, and of the night—
Both together:—let me slake
All my thirst for sweet heart-ache!
Let my bower be of yew,
Interwreath'd with myrtles new;
Pines and lime-trees full in bloom,
And my couch a low grass-tomb.



Lo! I must tell a tale of chivalry;
For large white plumes are dancing in mine eye.
Not like the formal crest of latter days:
But bending in a thousand graceful ways;
So graceful, that it seems no mortal hand,
Or e'en the touch of Archimago's wand,
Could charm them into such an attitude.
We must think rather, that in playful mood,
Some mountain breeze had turned its chief delight,
To show this wonder of its gentle might.
Lo! I must tell a tale of chivalry;
For while I muse, the lance points slantingly
Athwart the morning air: some lady sweet,
Who cannot feel for cold her tender feet,
From the worn top of some old battlement
Hails it with tears, her stout defender sent:
And from her own pure self no joy dissembling,
Wraps round her ample robe with happy trembling.
Sometimes, when the good Knight his rest would take,
It is reflected, clearly, in a lake,
With the young ashen boughs, 'gainst which it rests,
And th'half seen mossiness of linnets' nests.
Ah! shall I ever tell its cruelty,
When the fire flashes from a warrior's eye,
And his tremendous hand is grasping it,
And his dark brow for very wrath is knit?
Or when his spirit, with more calm intent,
Leaps to the honors of a tournament,
And makes the gazers round about the ring
Stare at the grandeur of the ballancing?
No, no! this is far off:—then how shall I
Revive the dying tones of minstrelsy,
Which linger yet about lone gothic arches,
In dark green ivy, and among wild larches?
How sing the splendour of the revelries,
When buts of wine are drunk off to the lees?
And that bright lance, against the fretted wall,
Beneath the shade of stately banneral,
Is slung with shining cuirass, sword, and shield?
Where ye may see a spur in bloody field.
Light-footed damsels move with gentle paces
Round the wide hall, and show their happy faces;
Or stand in courtly talk by fives and sevens:
Like those fair stars that twinkle in the heavens.
Yet must I tell a tale of chivalry:
Or wherefore comes that knight so proudly by?
Wherefore more proudly does the gentle knight,
Rein in the swelling of his ample might?
Spenser! thy brows are arched, open, kind,
And come like a clear sun-rise to my mind;
And always does my heart with pleasure dance,
When I think on thy noble countenance:
Where never yet was ought more earthly seen
Than the pure freshness of thy laurels green.
Therefore, great bard, I not so fearfully
Call on thy gentle spirit to hover nigh
My daring steps: or if thy tender care,
Thus startled unaware,
Be jealous that the foot of other wight
Should madly follow that bright path of light
Trac'd by thy lov'd Libertas; he will speak,
And tell thee that my prayer is very meek;
That I will follow with due reverence,
And start with awe at mine own strange pretence.
Him thou wilt hear; so I will rest in hope
To see wide plains, fair trees and lawny slope:
The morn, the eve, the light, the shade, the flowers;
Clear streams, smooth lakes, and overlooking towers.



Before he went to feed with owls and bats
    Nebuchadnezzar had an ugly dream,
    Worse than an Hus'if's when she thinks her cream
Made a Naumachia for mice and rats.
So scared, he sent for that “Good King of Cats”
    Young Daniel, who soon did pluck away the beam
    From out his eye, and said he did not deem
The sceptre worth a straw—his Cushions old door-mats.
A horrid nightmare similar somewhat
    Of late has haunted a most motley crew,
        Most loggerheads and Chapmen—we are told
That any Daniel tho' he be a sot
    Can make the lying lips turn pale of hue
        By belching out “ye are that head of Gold.”



This pleasant tale is like a little copse:
    The honied lines do freshly interlace
    To keep the reader in so sweet a place,
So that he here and there full-hearted stops;
And oftentimes he feels the dewy drops
    Come cool and suddenly against his face,
    And by the wandering melody may trace
Which way the tender-legged linnet hops.
Oh! what a power hath white Simplicity!
    What mighty power has this gentle story!
    I that for ever feel athirst for glory
Could at this moment be content to lie
    Meekly upon the grass, as those whose sobbings
    Were heard of none beside the mournful robins.



    God of the golden bow,
        And of the golden lyre,
    And of the golden hair,
        And of the golden fire,
            Charioteer
            Of the patient year,
        Where—where slept thine ire,
When like a blank idiot I put on thy wreath,
        Thy laurel, thy glory,
        The light of thy story,
Or was I a worm—too low crawling, for death?
        O Delphic Apollo!
    The Thunderer grasp'd and grasp'd,
        The Thunderer frown'd and frown'd;
    The eagle's feathery mane
        For wrath became stiffen'd—the sound
            Of breeding thunder
            Went drowsily under,
        Muttering to be unbound.
O why didst thou pity, and for a worm
        Why touch thy soft lute
        Till the thunder was mute,
Why was not I crush'd—such a pitiful germ?
        O Delphic Apollo!
    The Pleiades were up,
        Watching the silent air;
    The seeds and roots in the Earth
        Were swelling for summer fare;
            The Ocean, its neighbour,
            Was at its old labour,
        When, who—who did dare
To tie, like a madman, thy plant round his brow,
        And grin and look proudly,
        And blaspheme so loudly,
And live for that honour, to stoop to thee now?
        O Delphic Apollo!



Oh! how I love, on a fair summer's eve,
    When streams of light pour down the golden west,
    And on the balmy zephyrs tranquil rest
The silver clouds, far—far away to leave
All meaner thoughts, and take a sweet reprieve
    From little cares; to find, with easy quest,
    A fragrant wild, with Nature's beauty drest,
And there into delight my soul deceive.
There warm my breast with patriotic lore,
    Musing on Milton's fate—on Sydney's bier—
        Till their stern forms before my mind arise:
Perhaps on wing of Poesy upsoar,
    Full often dropping a delicious tear,
        When some melodious sorrow spells mine eyes.



Happy, happy glowing fire!
Fragrant air! delicious light!
Let me to my glooms retire!
I to green-weed rivers bright!
Happy, happy glowing fire!
Dazzling bowers of soft retire,
Ever let my nourish'd wing,
Like a bat's, still wandering,
Faintless fan your fiery spaces,
Spirit sole in deadly places.
In unhaunted roar and blaze,
Open eyes that never daze,
Let me see the myriad shapes
Of men, and beasts, and fish, and apes,
Portray'd in many a fiery den,
And wrought by spumy bitumen.
On the deep intenser roof,
Arched every way aloof,
Let me breathe upon their skies,
And anger their live tapestries;
Free from cold, and every care,
Of chilly rain, and shivering air.
Spirit of Fire! away! away!
Or your very roundelay
Will sear my plumage newly budded
From its quilled sheath, all studded
With the self-same dews that fell
On the May-grown Asphodel.
Spirit of Fire—away! away!
Spirit of Fire—away! away!
Zephyr, blue-eyed Faery, turn,
And see my cool sedge-bury'd urn,
Where it rests its mossy brim
'Mid water-mint and cresses dim;
And the flowers, in sweet troubles,
Lift their eyes above the bubbles,
Like our Queen, when she would please
To sleep, and Oberon will teaze.
Love me, blue-eyed Faery, true!
Soothly I am sick for you.
Gentle Breama! by the first
Violet young nature nurst,
I will bathe myself with thee,
So you sometimes follow me
To my home, far, far, in west,
Beyond the nimble-wheeled quest
Of the golden-browed sun:
Come with me, o'er tops of trees,
To my fragrant palaces,
Where they ever floating are
Beneath the cherish of a star
Call'd Vesper, who with silver veil
Ever hides his brilliance pale,
Ever gently-drows'd doth keep
Twilight for the Fayes to sleep.
Fear not that your watery hair
Will thirst in drouthy ringlets there;
Clouds of stored summer rains
Thou shalt taste, before the stains
Of the mountain soil they take,
And too unlucent for thee make.
I love thee, crystal Faery, true!
Sooth I am as sick for you!
Out, ye aguish Faeries, out!
Chilly lovers, what a rout
Keep ye with your frozen breath,
Colder than the mortal death.
Adder-eyed Dusketha, speak,
Shall we leave these, and go seek
In the earth's wide entrails old
Couches warm as their's are cold?
O for a fiery gloom and thee,
Dusketha, so enchantingly
Freckle-wing'd and lizard-sided!
By thee, Sprite, will I be guided!
I care not for cold or heat;
Frost and flame, or sparks, or sleet,
To my essence are the same;—
But I honour more the flame.
Sprite of Fire, I follow thee
Wheresoever it may be,
To the torrid spouts and fountains,
Underneath earth-quaked mountains;
Or, at thy supreme desire,
Touch the very pulse of fire
With my bare unlidded eyes.
Sweet Dusketha! paradise!
Off, ye icy Spirits, fly!
Frosty creatures of the sky!
Breathe upon them, fiery sprite!
Away! away to our delight!
Go, feed on icicles, while we
Bedded in tongue-flames will be.
Lead me to those feverous glooms,
Sprite of Fire!
Me to the blooms,
Blue-eyed Zephyr, of those flowers
Far in the west where the May-cloud lowers;
And the beams of still Vesper, when winds are all wist,
Are shed thro' the rain and the milder mist,
And twilight your floating bowers.



Two or three Posies
With two or three simples—
Two or three Noses
With two or three pimples—
Two or three wise men
And two or three ninny's—
Two or three purses
And two or three guineas—
Two or three raps
At two or three doors—
Two or three naps
Of two or three hours—
Two or three Cats
And two or three mice—
Two or three sprats
At a very great price—
Two or three sandies
And two or three tabbies—
Two or three dandies
And two Mrs  

Two or three Smiles
And two or three frowns—
Two or three Miles
To two or three towns—
Two or three pegs
For two or three bonnets—
Two or three dove eggs
To hatch into sonnets.



In a drear-nighted December,
Too happy, happy tree,
Thy branches ne'er remember
Their green felicity:
The north cannot undo them
With a sleety whistle through them,
Nor frozen thawings glue them
From budding at the prime.
In a drear-nighted December,
Too happy, happy brook,
Thy bubblings ne'er remember
Apollo's summer look;
But with a sweet forgetting
They stay their crystal fretting,
Never, never petting
About the frozen time.
Ah! would 'twere so with many
A gentle girl and boy!
But were there ever any
Writhed not at passéd joy?
To know the change and feel it,
When there is none to heal it
Nor numbéd sense to steal it—
Was never said in rhyme.



So, I am safe emerged from these broils!
Amid the wreck of thousands I am whole;
For every crime I have a laurel-wreath,
For every lie a lordship. Nor yet has
My ship of fortune furl'd her silken sails,—
Let her glide on! This danger'd neck is saved,
By dexterous policy, from the rebel's axe;
And of my ducal palace not one stone
Is bruised by the Hungarian petards.
Toil hard, ye slaves, and from the miser-earth
Bring forth once more my bullion, treasured deep,
With all my jewell'd salvers, silver and gold,
And precious goblets that make rich the wine.
But why do I stand babbling to myself?
Where is Auranthe? I have news for her
Shall—
Conrad! what tidings? Good, if I may guess
From your alert eyes and high-lifted brows.
What tidings of the battle? Albert? Ludolph? Otho?
You guess aright. And, sister, slurring o'er
Our by-gone quarrels, I confess my heart
Is beating with a child's anxiety,
To make our golden fortune known to you.
So serious?
Yes, so serious, that before
I utter even the shadow of a hint
Concerning what will make that sin-worn cheek
Blush joyous blood through every lineament,
You must make here a solemn vow to me.
I prythee, Conrad, do not overact
The hypocrite—what vow would you impose?
Trust me for once,—that you may be assur'd
'Tis not confiding to a broken reed,
A poor Court-bankrupt, outwitted and lost,
Revolve these facts in your acutest mood,
In such a mood as now you listen to me:—
A few days since, I was an open rebel
Against the Emperor, had suborn'd his son,
Drawn off his nobles to revolt, and shown
Contented fools causes for discontent
Fresh hatch'd in my ambition's eagle nest—
So thriv'd I as a rebel, and behold
Now I am Otho's favourite, his dear friend,
His right hand, his brave Conrad.
I confess
You have intrigued with these unsteady times
To admiration; but to be a favourite—
I saw my moment. The Hungarians,
Collected silently in holes and corners,
Appear'd, a sudden host, in the open day.
I should have perish'd in our empire's wreck,
But, calling interest loyalty, swore faith
To most believing Otho; and so help'd
His blood-stain'd ensigns to the victory
In yesterday's hard fight, that it has turn'd
The edge of his sharp wrath to eager kindness.
So far yourself. But what is this to me
More than that I am glad? I gratulate you.
Yes, sister, but it does regard you greatly,
Nearly, momentously,—aye, painfully!
Make me this vow—
Concerning whom or what?
Albert!
I would inquire somewhat of him:
You had a letter from me touching him?
No treason 'gainst his head in deed or word!
Surely you spar'd him at my earnest prayer?
Give me the letter—it should not exist!
At one pernicious charge of the enemy,
I, for a moment-whiles, was prisoner ta'en
And rifled,—stuff! the horses' hoofs have minc'd it!
He is alive?
He is! but here make oath
To alienate him from your scheming brain,
Divorce him from your solitary thoughts,
And cloud him in such utter banishment,
That when his person meets again your eye,
Your vision shall quite lose its memory,
And wander past him as through vacancy.
I'll not be perjured.
No, nor great, nor mighty;
You would not wear a crown, or rule a kingdom.
To you it is indifferent.
What means this?
You'll not be perjured! Go to Albert then,
That camp-mushroom—dishonour of our house.
Go, page his dusty heels upon a march,
Furbish his jingling baldric while he sleeps,
And share his mouldy ration in a siege.
Yet stay,—perhaps a charm may call you back,
And make the widening circlets of your eyes
Sparkle with healthy fevers.—The Emperor
Hath given consent that you should marry Ludolph!
Can it be, brother? For a golden crown
With a queen's awful lips I doubly thank you!
This is to wake in Paradise! Farewell
Thou clod of yesterday—'twas not myself!
Not till this moment did I ever feel
My spirit's faculties! I'll flatter you
For this, and be you ever proud of it;
Thou, Jove-like, struck'dst thy forehead,
And from the teeming marrow of thy brain
I spring complete Minerva! But the prince—
His highness Ludolph—where is he?
I know not:
When, lackeying my counsel at a beck,
The rebel lords, on bended knees, received
The Emperor's pardon, Ludolph kept aloof,
Sole, in a stiff, fool-hardy, sulky pride;
Yet, for all this, I never saw a father
In such a sickly longing for his son.
We shall soon see him, for the Emperor
He will be here this morning.
That I heard
Among the midnight rumours from the camp.
You give up Albert to me?
Harm him not!
E'en for his higness Ludolph's sceptry hand,
I would not Albert suffer any wrong.
Have I not laboured, plotted—?
See you spare him:
Nor be pathetic, my kind benefactor,
On all the many bounties of your hand,—
'Twas for yourself you laboured—not for me!
Do you not count, when I am queen, to take
Advantage of your chance discoveries
Of my poor secrets, and so hold a rod
Over my life?
Let not this slave—this villain—
Be cause of feud between us. See! he comes!
Look, woman, look, your Albert is quite safe!
In haste it seems. Now shall I be in the way,
And wish'd with silent curses in my grave,
Or side by side with 'whelmed mariners.
Fair on your graces fall this early morrow!
So it is like to do, without my prayers,
For your right noble names, like favourite tunes,
Have fall'n full frequent from our Emperor's lips,
High commented with smiles.
Noble Albert!
Noble!
Such salutation argues a glad heart
In our prosperity. We thank you, sir.
Lady! O, would to Heaven your poor servant
Could do you better service than mere words!
But I have other greeting than mine own,
From no less man than Otho, who has sent
This ring as pledge of dearest amity;
'Tis chosen I hear from Hymen's jewel'ry,
And you will prize it, lady, I doubt not,
Beyond all pleasures past, and all to come.
To you great duke—
To me! What of me, ha
What pleas'd your grace to say?
Your message, sir!
You mean not this to me?
Sister, this way;
For there shall be no “gentle Alberts” now,[Aside.

No “sweet Auranthes!”
The duke is out of temper; if he knows
More than a brother of a sister ought,
I should not quarrel with his peevishness.
Auranthe—Heaven preserve her always fair!—
Is in the heady, proud, ambitious vein;
I bicker not with her,—bid her farewell!
She has taken flight from me, thenlet her soar,—
He is a fool who stands at pining gaze!
But for poor Ludolph, he is food for sorrow:
No levelling bluster of my licens'd thoughts,
No military swagger of my mind,
Can smother from myself the wrong I've done him,—
Without design, indeed,—yet is so,—
And opiate for the conscience have I none!
Where is my noble herald?Enter Conrad, from the Castle, attended by two Knights and Servants. Albert following.

Well, hast told
Auranthe our intent imperial?
Lest our rent banners, too o' the sudden shown,
Should fright her silken casements, and dismay
Her household to our lack of entertainment.
A victory?
God save illustrious Otho!
Aye, Conrad, it will pluck out all grey hairs;
It is the best physician for the spleen;
The courtliest inviter to a feast;
The subtlest excuser of small faults;
And a nice judge in the age and smack of wine.Enter, from the Castle, Auranthe, followed by Pagesholding up her robes, and a train of Women. She kneels.

Hail my sweet hostess! I do thank the stars,
Or my good soldiers, or their ladies' eyes,
That, after such a merry battle fought,
I can, all safe in body and in soul,
Kiss your fair hand and lady fortune's too.
My ring! now, on my life, it doth rejoice
These lips to feel't on this soft ivory!
Keep it, my brightest daughter; it may prove
The little prologue to a line of kings.
I strove against thee and my hot-blood son,
Dull blockhead that I was to be so blind,
But now my sight is clear; forgive me, lady.
My lord, I was a vassal to your frown,
And now your favour makes me but more humble;
In wintry winds the simple snow is safe,
But fadeth at the greeting of the sun:
Unto thine anger I might well have spoken,
Taking on me a woman's privilege,
But this so sudden kindness makes me dumb.
What need of this? Enough, if you will be
A potent tutoress to my wayward boy,
And teach him, what it seems his nurse could not,
To say, for once, I thank you. Sigifred!
He has not yet return'd, my gracious liege.
What then! No tidings of my friendly Arab?
None, mighty Otho.[To one of his Knights, who goes out.

Send forth instantly
An hundred horsemen from my honoured gates,
To scour the plains and search the cottages.
Cry a reward, to him who shall first bring
News of that vanished Arabian,
A full-heap'd helmet of the purest gold.
More thanks, good Conrad; for, except my son's,
There is no face I rather would behold
Than that same quick-eyed pagan's. By the saints,
This coming night of banquets must not light
Her dazzling torches; nor the music breathe
Smooth, without clashing cymbal, tones of peace
And in-door melodies; nor the ruddy wine
Ebb spouting to the lees; if I pledge not,
In my first cup, that Arab!
Mighty Monarch,
I wonder not this stranger's victor-deeds
So hang upon your spirit. Twice in the fight
It was my chance to meet his olive brow,
Triumphant in the enemy's shatter'd rhomb;
And, to say truth, in any Christian arm
I never saw such prowess.
Did you ever?
O, 'tis a noble boy!—tut!—what do I say?
I mean a triple Saladin, whose eyes,
When in the glorious scuffle they met mine,
Seem'd to say—“Sleep, old man, in safety sleep;
I am the victory!”
Pity he's not here.
And my son too, pity he is not here.
Lady Auranthe, I would not make you blush,
But can you give a guess where Ludolph is?
Know you not of him?
Indeed, my liege, no secret—
Nay, nay, without more words, dost know of him?
I would I were so over-fortunate,
Both for his sake and mine, and to make glad
A father's ears with tidings of his son.
I see 'tis like to be a tedious day.
Were Theodore and Gonfred and the rest
Sent forth with my commands?
Aye, my lord.
And no news! No news! 'Faith! 'tis very strange
He thus avoids us. Lady, is't not strange?
Will he be truant to you too? It is a shame.
Will't please your highness enter, and accept
The unworthy welcome of your servant's house?
Leaving your cares to one whose diligence
May in few hours make pleasures of them all.
Not so tedious, Conrad. No, no, no,—
I must see Ludolph or the—What's that shout!
Huzza! huzza! Long live the Emperor!
Fall back! Away there!
Say, what noise is that?
It is young Gersa, the Hungarian prince,
Pick'd like a red stag from the fallow herd
Of prisoners. Poor prince, forlorn he steps,
Slow, and demure, and proud in his despair.
If I may judge by his so tragic bearing,
His eye not downcast, and his folded arm,
He doth this moment wish himself asleep
Among his fallen captains on yon plains.
Well said, Sir Albert.
Not a word of greeting,
No welcome to a princely visitor,
Most mighty Otho? Will not my great host
Vouchsafe a syllable, before he bids
His gentlemen conduct me with all care
To some securest lodging?—cold perhaps!
What mood is this? Hath fortune touch'd thy brain?
O kings and princes of this fev'rous world,
What abject things, what mockeries must ye be,
What nerveless minions of safe palaces!
When here, a monarch, whose proud foot is used
To fallen princes' necks, as to his stirrup,
Must needs exclaim that I am mad forsooth,
Because I cannot flatter with bent knees
My conqueror!
Gersa, I think you wrong me:
I think I have a better fame abroad.
I prythee mock me not with gentle speech,
But, as a favour, bid me from thy presence;
Let me no longer be the wondering food
Of all these eyes; prythee command me hence!
Do not mistake me, Gersa. That you may not,
Come, fair Auranthe, try if your soft hands
Can manage those hard rivets to set free
So brave a prince and soldier.
Welcome task!
I am wound up in deep astonishment!
Thank you, fair lady. Otho! emperor!
You rob me of myself; my dignity
Is now your infant; I am a weak child.
Give me your hand, and let this kindly grasp
Live in our memories.
In mine it will.
I blush to think of my unchasten'd tongue;
But I was haunted by the monstrous ghost
Of all our slain battalions. Sire, reflect,
And pardon you will grant, that, at this hour,
The bruised remnants of our stricken camp
Are huddling undistinguish'd my dear friends,
With common thousands, into shallow graves.
Enough, most noble Gersa. You are free
To cheer the brave remainder of your host
By your own healing presence, and that too,
Not as their leader merely, but their king;
For, as I hear, the wily enemy,
Who eas'd the crownet from your infant brows,
Bloody Taraxa, is among the dead.
Then I retire, so generous Otho please,
Bearing with me a weight of benefits
Too heavy to be borne.
It is not so;
Still understand me, King of Hungary,
Nor judge my open purposes awry.
Though I did hold you high in my esteem
For your self's sake, I do not personate
The stage-play emperor to entrap applause,
To set the silly sort o' the world agape,
And make the politic smile; no, I have heard
How in the Council you condemn'd this war,
Urging the perfidy of broken faith,—
For that I am your friend.
If ever, sire,
You are mine enemy, I dare here swear
'Twill not be Gersa's fault. Otho, farewell!
Will you return, Prince, to our banqueting?
As to my father's board I will return.
Conrad, with all due ceremony, give
The prince a regal escort to his camp;
Albert, go thou and bear him company.
Gersa, farewell!
All happiness attend you!
Return with what good speed you may; for soon
We must consult upon our terms of peace.[Exeunt Gersa and Albert with others.

And thus a marble column do I build
To prop my empire's dome. Conrad, in thee
I have another stedfast one, to uphold
The portals of my state; and, for my own
Pre-eminence and safety, I will strive
To keep thy strength upon its pedestal.
For, without thee, this day I might have been
A show-monster about the streets of Prague,
In chains, as just now stood that noble prince:
And then to me no mercy had been shown,
For when the conquer'd lion is once dungeon'd,
Who lets him forth again? or dares to give
An old lion sugar-cates of mild reprieve?
Not to thine ear alone I make confession,
But to all here, as, by experience,
I know how the great basement of all power
Is frankness, and a true tongue to the world;
And how intriguing secrecy is proof
Of fear and weakness, and a hollow state.
Conrad, I owe thee much.
To kiss that hand,
My emperor, is ample recompense,
For a mere act of duty.
Thou art wrong;
For what can any man on earth do more?
We will make trial of your house's welcome,
My bright Auranthe!
How is Friedburg honoured!
The benison of heaven on your head,
Imperial Otho!
Who stays me? Speak! Quick!
Pause but one moment, mighty conqueror!
Upon the threshold of this house of joy.
Pray, do not prose, good Ethelbert, but speak
What is your purpose.
The restoration of some captive maids,
Devoted to Heaven's pious ministries,
Who, being driven from their religious cells,
And kept in thraldom by our enemy,
When late this province was a lawless spoil,
Still weep amid the wild Hungarian camp,
Though hemm'd around by thy victorious arms.
Demand the holy sisterhood in our name
From Gersa's tents. Farewell, old Ethelbert.
The saints will bless you for this pious care.
Daughter, your hand; Ludolph's would fit it best.
Ho! let the music sound!
You have my secret; let it not be breath'd.
Still give me leave to wonder that the Prince
Ludolph and the swift Arab are the same;
Still to rejoice that 'twas a German arm
Death doing in a turban'd masquerade.
The Emperor must not know it, Sigifred.
I prythee, why? What happier hour of time
Could thy pleas'd star point down upon from heaven
With silver index, bidding thee make peace?
Still it must not be known, good Sigifred;
The star may point oblique.
If Otho knew
His son to be that unknown Mussulman
After whose spurring heels he sent me forth,
With one of his well-pleas'd Olympian oaths,
The charters of man's greatness, at this hour
He would be watching round the castle walls,
And, like an anxious warder, strain his sight
For the first glimpse of such a son return'd—
Ludolph, that blast of the Hungarians,
That Saracenic meteor of the fight,
That silent fury, whose fell scymitar
Kept danger all aloof from Otho's head,
And left him space for wonder.
Say no more.
Not as a swordsman would I pardon claim,
But as a son. The bronz'd centurion,
Long toil'd in foreign wars, and whose high deeds
Are shaded in a forest of tall spears,
Known only to his troop, hath greater plea
Of favour with my sire than I can have.
My lord, forgive me that I cannot see
How this proud temper with clear reason squares.
What made you then, with such an anxious love,
Hover around that life, whose bitter days
You vext with bad revolt? Was 't opium,
Or the mad-fumed wine? Nay, do not frown,
I rather would grieve with you than upbraid.
I do believe you. No, 'twas not to make
A father his son's debtor, or to heal
His deep heart-sickness for a rebel child.
'Twas done in memory of my boyish days,
Poor cancel for his kindness to my youth,
For all his calming of my childish griefs,
And all his smiles upon my merriment.
No, not a thousand foughten fields could sponge
Those days paternal from my memory,
Though now upon my head he heaps disgrace.
My Prince, you think too harshly—
Can I so?
Hath he not gall'd my spirit to the quick?
And with a sullen rigour obstinate
Pour'd out a phial of wrath upon my faults?
Hunted me as the Tartar does the boar,
Driven me to the very edge o' the world,
And almost put a price upon my head?
Remember how he spar'd the rebel lords.
Yes, yes, I know he hath a noble nature
That cannot trample on the fallen. But his
Is not the only proud heart in his realm.
He hath wrong'd me, and I have done him wrong;
He hath lov'd me, and I have shown him kindness;
We should be almost equal.
Yet, for all this,
I would you had appear'd among those lords,
And ta'en his favour.
Ha! till now I thought
My friend had held poor Ludolph's honour dear.
What! would you have me sue before his throne
And kiss the courtier's missal, its silk steps?
Or hug the golden housings of his steed,
Amid a camp, whose steeled swarms I dar'd
But yesterday? And, at the trumpet sound,
Bow like some unknown mercenary's flag,
And lick the soiled grass? No, no, my friend,
I would not, I, be pardon'd in the heap,
And bless indemnity with all that scum,—
Those men I mean, who on my shoulders propp'd
Their weak rebellion, winning me with lies,
And pitying forsooth my many wrongs;
Poor self-deceived wretches, who must think
Each one himself a king in embryo,
Because some dozen vassals cry'd—my lord!
Cowards, who never knew their little hearts,
Till flurried danger held the mirror up,
And then they own'd themselves without a blush,
Curling, like spaniels, round my father's feet.
Such things deserted me and are forgiven,
While I, least guilty, am an outcast still,
And will be, for I love such fair disgrace.
I know the clear truth; so would Otho see,
For he is just and noble. Fain would I
Be pleader for you—
He'll hear none of it;
You know his temper, hot, proud, obstinate;
Endanger not yourself so uselessly.
I will encounter his thwart spleen myself,
To-day, at the Duke Conrad's, where he keeps
His crowded state after the victory.
There will I be, a most unwelcome guest,
And parley with him, as a son should do,
Who doubly loathes a father's tyranny;
Tell him how feeble is that tyranny;
How the relationship of father and son
Is no more valid than a silken leash
Where lions tug adverse, if love grow not
From interchanged love through many years.
Aye, and those turreted Franconian walls,
Like to a jealous casket, hold my pearl—
My fair Auranthe! Yes, I will be there.
Be not so rash; wait till his wrath shall pass,
Until his royal spirit softly ebbs
Self-influenced; then, in his morning dreams
He will forgive thee, and awake in grief
To have not thy good morrow.
Yes, to-day
I must be there, while her young pulses beat
Among the new-plum'd minions of the war.
Have you seen her of late? No? Auranthe,
Franconia's fair sister, 'tis I mean.
She should be paler for my troublous days—
And there it is—my father's iron lips
Have sworn divorcement 'twixt me and my right.
Auranthe! I had hop'd this whim had pass'd.
And, Sigifred, with all his love of justice,
When will he take that grandchild in his arms,
That, by my love I swear, shall soon be his?
This reconcilement is impossible,
For see—but who are these?
They are messengers
From our great emperor; to you, I doubt not,
For couriers are abroad to seek you out.
Seeing so many vigilant eyes explore
The province to invite your highness back
To your high dignities, we are too happy.
We have no eloquence to colour justly
The emperor's anxious wishes.
Go. I follow you.[Exeunt Theodore and Gonfred.

I play the prude: it is but venturing—
Why should he be so earnest? Come, my friend,
Let us to Friedburg castle.
No more advices, no more cautioning:
I leave it all to fate—to any thing!
I cannot square my conduct to time, place,
Or circumstance; to me 'tis all a mist!
I say no more.
It seems I am to wait
Here in the ante-room;—that may be a trifle.
You see now how I dance attendance here,
Without that tyrant temper, you so blame,
Snapping the rein. You have medicin'd me
With good advices; and I here remain,
In this most honourable ante-room,
Your patient scholar.
Do not wrong me, Prince.
By Heavens, I'd rather kiss Duke Conrad's slipper,
When in the morning he doth yawn with pride,
Than see you humbled but a half-degree!
Truth is, the Emperor would fain dismiss
The nobles ere he sees you.
Well, sir! what?
Great honour to the Prince! The Emperor,
Hearing that his brave son had re-appeared,
Instant dismiss'd the Council from his sight,
As Jove fans off the clouds. Even now they pass.
Not the discoloured poisons of a fen,
Which he who breathes feels warning of his death,
Could taste so nauseous to the bodily sense,
As these prodigious sycophants disgust
The soul's fine palate.
Princely Ludolph, hail!
Welcome, thou younger sceptre to the realm!
Strength to thy virgin crownet's golden buds,
That they, against the winter of thy sire,
May burst, and swell, and flourish round thy brows,
Maturing to a weighty diadem!
Yet be that hour far off; and may he live,
Who waits for thee, as the chapp'd earth for rain.
Set my life's star! I have lived long enough,
Since under my glad roof, propitiously,
Father and son each other re-possess.
Fine wording, Duke! but words could never yet
Forestall the fates; have you not learnt that yet?
Let me look well: your features are the same;
Your gait the same; your hair of the same shade;
As one I knew some passed weeks ago,
Who sung far different notes into mine ears.
I have mine own particular comments on 't;
You have your own, perhaps.
My gracious Prince,
All men may err. In truth I was deceived
In your great father's nature, as you were.
Had I known that of him I have since known,
And what you soon will learn, I would have turn'd
My sword to my own throat, rather than held
Its threatening edge against a good King's quiet:
Or with one word fever'd you, gentle Prince,
Who seem'd to me, as rugged times then went,
Indeed too much oppress'd. May I be bold
To tell the Emperor you will haste to him?
Your Dukedom's privilege will grant so much.[Exit Conrad.

He's very close to Otho, a tight leech!
Your hand—I go. Ha! here the thunder comes
Sullen against the wind! If in two angry brows
My safety lies, then Sigifred, I'm safe.
Will you make Titan play the lackey-page
To chattering pigmies? I would have you know
That such neglect of our high Majesty
Annuls all feel of kindred. What is son,—
Or friend,—or brother,—or all ties of blood,—
When the whole kingdom, centred in ourself,
Is rudely slighted? Who am I to wait?
By Peter's chair! I have upon my tongue
A word to fright the proudest spirit here!—
Death!—and slow tortures to the hardy fool,
Who dares take such large charter from our smiles!
Conrad, we would be private. Sigifred!
Off! And none pass this way on pain of death!
This was but half expected, my good sire,
Yet I am griev'd at it, to the full height,
As though my hopes of favour had been whole.
How you indulge yourself! What can you hope for?
Nothing, my liege; I have to hope for nothing.
I come to greet you as a loving son,
And then depart, if I may be so free,
Seeing that blood of yours in my warm veins
Has not yet mitigated into milk.
What would you, sir?
A lenient banishment;
So please you let me unmolested pass
This Conrad's gates, to the wide air again.
I want no more. A rebel wants no more.
And shall I let a rebel loose again
To muster kites and eagles 'gainst my head?
No, obstinate boy, you shall be kept cag'd up,
Serv'd with harsh food, with scum for Sunday-drink.
Indeed!
And chains too heavy for your life:
I'll choose a gaoler, whose swart monstrous face
Shall be a hell to look upon, and she—
Ha!
Shall be your fair Auranthe.
Amaze! Amaze!
To-day you marry her.
This is a sharp jest!
No. None at all. When have I said a lie?
If I sleep not, I am a waking wretch.
Not a word more. Let me embrace my child.
I dare not. 'Twould pollute so good a father!
O heavy crime! that your son's blinded eyes
Could not see all his parent's love aright,
As now I see it. Be not kind to me—
Punish me not with favour.
Are you sure,
Ludolph, you have no saving plea in store?
My father, none!
Then you astonish me.
No, I have no plea. Disobedience,
Rebellion, obstinacy, blasphemy,
Are all my counsellors. If they can make
My crooked deeds show good and plausible,
Then grant me loving pardon, but not else,
Good Gods! not else, in any way, my liege!
You are a most perplexing, noble boy.
You not less a perplexing noble father.
Well, you shall have free passport through the gates.
Farewell!
Farewell! and by these tears believe,
And still remember, I repent in pain
All my misdeeds!
Ludolph, I will! I will!
But, Ludolph, ere you go, I would enquire
If you, in all your wandering, ever met
A certain Arab haunting in these parts.
No, my good lord, I cannot say I did.
Make not your father blind before his time;
Nor let these arms paternal hunger more
For an embrace, to dull the appetite
Of my great love for thee, my supreme child!
Come close, and let me breathe into thine ear.
I knew you through disguise. You are the Arab!
You can't deny it.
Happiest of days!
We'll make it so.
'Stead of one fatted calf
Ten hecatombs shall bellow out their last,
Smote 'twixt the horns by the death-stunning mace
Of Mars, and all the soldiery shall feast
Nobly as Nimrod's masons, when the towers
Of Nineveh new kiss'd the parted clouds!
Large as a God speak out, where all is thine.
Aye, father, but the fire in my sad breast
Is quench'd with inward tears! I must rejoice
For you, whose wings so shadow over me
In tender victory, but for myself
I still must mourn. The fair Auranthe mine!
Too great a boon! I prythee let me ask
What more than I know of could so have changed
Your purpose touching her?
At a word, this:
In no deed did you give me more offence
Than your rejection of Erminia.
To my appalling, I saw too good proof
Of your keen-eyed suspicion,—she is naught!
You are convinc'd?
Aye, spite of her sweet looks.
O, that my brother's daughter should so fall!
Her fame has pass'd into the grosser lips
Of soldiers in their cups.
'Tis very sad.
No more of her. Auranthe—Ludolph, come!
This marriage be the bond of endless peace!
Where! where! where shall I find a messenger?
A trusty soul? A good man in the camp?
Shall I go myself? Monstrous wickedness!
O cursed Conrad! devilish Auranthe!
Here is proof palpable as the bright sun!
O for a voice to reach the Emperor's ears!
Fair prisoner, hear you those joyous shouts?
The king—aye, now our king,—but still your slave,
Young Gersa, from a short captivity
Has just return'd. He bids me say, bright Dame,
That even the homage of his ranged chiefs
Cures not his keen impatience to behold
Such beauty once again. What ails you, lady?
Say, is not that a German, yonder? There!
Methinks by his stout bearing he should be—
Yes—'tis one Albert; a brave German knight,
And much in the emperor's favour.
I would fain
Enquire of friends and kinsfolk; how they fared
In these rough times. Brave soldier, as you pass
To royal Gersa with my humble thanks,
Will you send yonder knight to me?
I will.
Yes, he was ever known to be a man
Frank, open, generous; Albert I may trust.
O proof! proof! proof! Albert's an honest man;
Not Ethelbert the monk, if he were here,
Would I hold more trustworthy. Now!
Good Gods!
Lady Erminia! are you prisoner
In this beleaguer'd camp? Or are you here
Of your own will? You pleas'd to send for me.
By Venus, 'tis a pity I knew not
Your plight before, and, by her Son, I swear
To do you every service you can ask.
What would the fairest—?
Albert, will you swear?
I have. Well?
Albert, you have fame to lose.
If men, in court and camp, lie not outright,
You should be, from a thousand, chosen forth
To do an honest deed. Shall I confide—?
Aye, anything to me, fair creature. Do;
Dictate my task. Sweet woman,—
Truce with that.
You understand me not; and, in your speech,
I see how far the slander is abroad.
Without proof could you think me innocent?
Lady, I should rejoice to know you so.
If you have any pity for a maid,
Suffering a daily death from evil tongues;
Any compassion for that Emperor's niece,
Who, for your bright sword and clear honesty,
Lifted you from the crowd of common men
Into the lap of honour;—save me, knight!
How? Make it clear; if it be possible,
I, by the banner of Saint Maurice, swear
To right you.
Possible!—Easy. O my heart!
This letter's not so soil'd but you may read it;—
Possible! There—that letter! Read—read it.
A she-devil! A dragon! I her imp!
Fire of Hell! Auranthe—lewd demon!
Where got you this? Where? When?
I found it in the tent, among some spoils
Which, being noble, fell to Gersa's lot.
Come in, and see.
Villainy! Villainy!
Conrad's sword, his corslet, and his helm,
And his letter. Caitiff, he shall feel—
I see you are thunderstruck. Haste, haste away!
O I am tortured by this villainy.
You needs must be. Carry it swift to Otho;
Tell him, moreover, I am prisoner
Here in this camp, where all the sisterhood,
Forc'd from their quiet cells, are parcell'd out
For slaves among these Huns. Away! Away!
I am gone.
Swift be your steed! Within this hour
The Emperor will see it.
Ere I sleep:
That I can swear.
Brave captains! thanks. Enough
Of loyal homage now!
Hail, royal Hun!
What means this, fair one? Why in such alarm?
Who was it hurried by me so distract?
It seem'd you were in deep discourse together;
Your doctrine has not been so harsh to him
As to my poor deserts. Come, come, be plain.
I am no jealous fool to kill you both,
Or, for such trifles, rob the adorned world
Of such a beauteous vestal.
I grieve, my Lord,
To hear you condescend to ribald phrase.
This is too much! Hearken, my lady pure!
Silence! and hear the magic of a name—
Erminia! I am she,—the Emperor's niece!
Prais'd be the Heavens, I now dare own myself!
Erminia! Indeed! I've heard of her.
Prythee, fair lady, what chance brought you here?
Ask your own soldiers.
And you dare own your name.
For loveliness you may—and for the rest
My vein is not censorious.
Alas! poor me!
'Tis false indeed.
Indeed you are too fair:
The swan, soft leaning on her fledgy breast,
When to the stream she launches, looks not back
With such a tender grace; nor are her wings
So white as your soul is, if that but be
Twin-picture to your face. Erminia!
To-day, for the first day, I am a king,
Yet would I give my unworn crown away
To know you spotless.
Trust me one day more,
Generously, without more certain guarantee,
Than this poor face you deign to praise so much;
After that, say and do whate'er you please.
If I have any knowledge of you, sir,
I think, nay I am sure, you will grieve much
To hear my story. O be gentle to me,
For I am sick and faint with many wrongs,
Tir'd out, and weary-worn with contumelies.
Gersa. Poor lady!
Gentle Prince, 'tis false indeed.
Good morrow, holy father! I have had
Your prayers, though I look'd for you in vain.
Blessings upon you, daughter! Sure you look
Too cheerful for these foul pernicious days.
Young man, you heard this virgin say 'twas false,—
'Tis false, I say. What! can you not employ
Your temper elsewhere, 'mong these burly tents,
But you must taunt this dove, for she hath lost
The Eagle Otho to beat off assault?
Fie! fie! But I will be her guard myself;
In the Emperor's name. I here demand of you
Herself, and all her sisterhood. She false!
Peace! peace, old man! I cannot think she is.
Whom I have known from her first infancy,
Baptiz'd her in the bosom of the Church,
Watch'd her, as anxious husbandmen the grain,
From the first shoot till the unripe mid-May,
Then to the tender ear of her June days,
Which, lifting sweet abroad its timid green,
Is blighted by the touch of calumny;
You cannot credit such a monstrous tale.
I cannot. Take her. Fair Erminia,
I follow you to Friedburg,—is't not so?
Aye, so we purpose.
Daughter, do you so?
How's this? I marvel! Yet you look not mad.
I have good news to tell you, Ethelbert.
Ho! ho, there! Guards!
Your blessing, father! Sweet Erminia,
Believe me, I am well nigh sure—
Farewell!
Short time will show.[Enter Chiefs.

Yes, father Ethelbert,
I have news precious as we pass along.
Dear daughter, you shall guide me.
To no ill.
Command an escort to the Friedburg lines.[Exeunt Chiefs.

Pray let me lead. Fair lady, forget not
Gersa, how he believ'd you innocent.
I follow you to Friedburg with all speed.
O that the earth were empty, as when Cain
Had no perplexity to hide his head!
Or that the sword of some brave enemy
Had put a sudden stop to my hot breath,
And hurl'd me down the illimitable gulph
Of times past, unremember'd! Better so
Than thus fast-limed in a cursed snare,
The white limbs of a wanton. This the end
Of an aspiring life! My boyhood past
In feud with wolves and bears, when no eye saw
The solitary warfare, fought for love
Of honour 'mid the growling wilderness.
My sturdier youth, maturing to the sword,
Won by the syren-trumpets, and the ring
Of shields upon the pavement, when bright-mail'd
Henry the Fowler pass'd the streets of Prague.
Was't to this end I louted and became
The menial of Mars, and held a spear
Sway'd by command, as corn is by the wind?
Is it for this, I now am lifted up
By Europe's throned Emperor, to see
My honour be my executioner,—
My love of fame, my prided honesty
Put to the torture for confessional?
Then the damn'd crime of blurting to the world
A woman's secret!—Though a fiend she be,
Too tender of my ignominious life;
But then to wrong the generous Emperor
In such a searching point, were to give up
My soul for foot-ball at Hell's holiday!
I must confess,—and cut my throat,—to-day?
To-morrow? Ho! some wine!
A fine humour—
Who goes there? Count Sigifred? Ha! Ha!
What, man, do you mistake the hollow sky
For a throng'd tavern,—and these stubbed trees
For old serge hangings,—me, your humble friend,
For a poor waiter? Why, man, how you stare!
What gipsies have you been carousing with?
No, no more wine; methinks you've had enough.
You well may laugh and banter. What a fool
An injury may make of a staid man!
You shall know all anon.
Some tavern brawl?
'Twas with some people out of common reach;
Revenge is difficult.
I am your friend;
We meet again to-day, and can confer
Upon it. For the present I'm in haste.
Whither?
To fetch King Gersa to the feast.
The Emperor on this marriage is so hot,
Pray Heaven it end not in apoplexy!
The very porters, as I pass'd the doors,
Heard his loud laugh, and answer'd in full choir.
I marvel, Albert, you delay so long
From those bright revelries; go, show yourself,
You may be made a duke.
Aye, very like:
Pray, what day has his Highness fix'd upon?
For what?
The marriage. What else can I mean?
To-day! O, I forgot, you could not know;
The news is scarce a minute old with me.
Married to-day! To-day! You did not say so?
Now, while I speak to you, their comely heads
Are bow'd before the mitre.
O! monstrous!
What is this?
Nothing, Sigifred. Farewell!
We'll meet upon our subject. Farewell, count!
Is this clear-headed Albert? He brain-turn'd!
'Tis as portentous as a meteor.
Now, Ludolph! Now, Auranthe! Daughter fair!
What can I find to grace your nuptial day
More than my love, and these wide realms in fee?
I have too much.
And I, my liege, by far.
Auranthe! I have! O, my bride, my love!
Not all the gaze upon us can restrain
My eyes, too long poor exiles from thy face,
From adoration, and my foolish tongue
From uttering soft responses to the love
I see in thy mute beauty beaming forth!
Fair creature, bless me with a single word!
All mine!
Spare, spare me, my Lord; I swoon else.
Soft beauty! by to-morrow I should die,
Wert thou not mine.
How deep she has bewitch'd him!
Ask you for her recipe for love philtres.
They hold the Emperor in admiration.
If ever king was happy, that am I!
What are the cities 'yond the Alps to me,
The provinces about the Danube's mouth,
The promise of fair soil beyond the Rhone;
Or routing out of Hyperborean hordes,
To these fair children, stars of a new age?
Unless perchance I might rejoice to win
This little ball of earth, and chuck it them
To play with!
Nay, my Lord, I do not know.
Let me not famish.
Good Franconia,
You heard what oath I sware, as the sun rose,
That unless Heaven would send me back my son,
My Arab,—no soft music should enrich
The cool wine, kiss'd off with a soldier's smack;
Now all my empire, barter'd for one feast,
Seems poverty.
Upon the neighbour-plain
The heralds have prepar'd a royal lists;
Your knights, found war-proof in the bloody field,
Speed to the game.
Well, Ludolph, what say you?
My lord!
A tourney?
Or, if 't please you best—
I want no more!
He soars!
Past all reason.
Though heaven's choir
Should in a vast circumference descend
And sing for my delight, I'd stop my ears!
Though bright Apollo's car stood burning here,
And he put out an arm to bid me mount,
His touch an immortality, not I!
This earth, this palace, this room, Auranthe!
This is a little painful; just too much.
Conrad, if he flames longer in this wise,
I shall believe in wizard-woven loves
And old romances; but I'll break the spell.
Ludolph!
He will be calm, anon.
You call'd?
Yes, yes, yes, I offend. You must forgive me;
Not being quite recover'd from the stun
Of your large bounties. A tourney, is it not?
The trumpets reach us.
On your peril, sirs,
Detain us!
Let not the abbot pass.
No,
On your lives!
Holy father, you must not.
Otho!
Who calls on Otho?
Ethelbert!
Let him come in.[Enter Ethelbert leading in Erminia.

Thou cursed abbot, why
Hast brought pollution to our holy rites?
Hast thou no fear of hangman, or the faggot?
What portent—what strange prodigy is this?
Away!
You, Duke?
Albert has surely fail'd me!
Look at the Emperor's brow upon me bent!
A sad delay!
Away, thou guilty thing!
You again, Duke? Justice, most mighty Otho!
You—go to your sister there and plot again,
A quick plot, swift as thought to save your heads;
For lo! the toils are spread around your den,
The world is all agape to see dragg'd forth
Two ugly monsters.
What means he, my lord?
I cannot guess.
Best ask your lady sister,
Whether the riddle puzzles her beyond
The power of utterance.
Foul barbarian, cease;
The Princess faints!
Stab him! O, sweetest wife!
Alas!
Your wife?
Aye, Satan! does that yerk ye?
Wife! so soon!
Aye, wife! Oh, impudence!
Thou bitter mischief! Venomous mad priest!
How dar'st thou lift those beetle brows at me?
Me—the prince Ludolph, in this presence here,
Upon my marriage-day, and scandalize
My joys with such opprobrious surprise?
Wife! Why dost linger on that syllable,
As if it were some demon's name pronounc'd
To summon harmful lightning, and make roar
The sleepy thunder? Hast no sense of fear?
No ounce of man in thy mortality?
Tremble! for, at my nod, the sharpen'd axe
Will make thy bold tongue quiver to the roots,
Those grey lids wink, and thou not know it more!
O, poor deceived Prince! I pity thee!
Great Otho! I claim justice—
Thou shalt have 't!
Thine arms from forth a pulpit of hot fire
Shall sprawl distracted! O that that dull cowl
Were some most sensitive portion of thy life,
That I might give it to my hounds to tear!
Thy girdle some fine zealous-pained nerve
To girth my saddle! And those devil's beads
Each one a life, that I might, every day,
Crush one with Vulcan's hammer!
Peace, my son;
You far outstrip my spleen in this affair.
Let us be calm, and hear the abbot's plea
For this intrusion.
I am silent, sire.
Conrad, see all depart not wanted here.[Exeunt Knights, Ladies, &c.

Ludolph, be calm. Ethelbert, peace awhile.
This mystery demands an audience
Of a just judge, and that will Otho be.
Why has he time to breathe another word?
Ludolph, old Ethelbert, be sure, comes not
To beard us for no cause; he's not the man
To cry himself up an ambassador
Without credentials.
I'll chain up myself.
Old Abbot, stand here forth. Lady Erminia,
Sit. And now, Abbot! what have you to say?
Our ear is open. First we here denounce
Hard penalties against thee, if't be found
The cause for which you have disturb'd us here,
Making our bright hours muddy, be a thing
Of little moment.
See this innocent!
Otho! thou father of the people call'd,
Is her life nothing? Her fair honour nothing?
Her tears from matins until even-song
Nothing? Her burst heart nothing? Emperor!
Is this your gentle niece—the simplest flower
Of the world's herbal—this fair lilly blanch'd
Still with the dews of piety, this meek lady
Here sitting like an angel newly-shent,
Who veils its snowy wings and grows all pale,—
Is she nothing?
What more to the purpose, abbot?
Whither is he winding?
No clue yet!
You have heard, my Liege, and so, no doubt, all here,
Foul, poisonous, malignant whisperings;
Nay open speech, rude mockery grown common,
Against the spotless nature and clear fame
Of the princess Erminia, your niece.
I have intruded here thus suddenly,
Because I hold those base weeds, with tight hand,
Which now disfigure her fair growing stem,
Waiting but for your sign to pull them up
By the dark roots, and leave her palpable,
To all men's sight, a Lady, innocent.
The ignominy of that whisper'd tale
About a midnight gallant, seen to climb
A window to her chamber neighbour'd near,
I will from her turn off, and put the load
On the right shoulders; on that wretch's head,
Who, by close stratagems, did save herself,
Chiefly by shifting to this lady's room
A rope-ladder for false witness.
Most atrocious!
Ethelbert, proceed.
With sad lips I shall:
For, in the healing of one wound, I fear
To make a greater. His young highness here
To-day was married.
Good.
Would it were good!
Yet why do I delay to spread abroad
The names of those two vipers, from whose jaws
A deadly breath went forth to taint and blast
This guileless lady?
Abbot, speak their names.
A minute first. It cannot be—but may
I ask, great judge, if you to-day have put
A letter by unread?
Does't end in this?
Out with their names!
Bold sinner, say you so?
Out, tedious monk!
Confess, or by the wheel—
My evidence cannot be far away;
And, though it never come, be on my head
The crime of passing an attaint upon
The slanderers of this virgin.
Speak aloud!
Auranthe, and her brother there.
Amaze!
Throw them from the windows!
Do what you will!
What shall I do with them?
Something of quick dispatch, for should she hear,
My soft Auranthe, her sweet mercy would
Prevail against my fury. Damned priest!
What swift death wilt thou die? As to the lady
I touch her not.
Illustrious Otho, stay!
An ample store of misery thou hast,
Choak not the granary of thy noble mind
With more bad bitter grain, too difficult
A cud for the repentance of a man
Grey-growing. To thee only I appeal,
Not to thy noble son, whose yeasting youth
Will clear itself, and crystal turn again.
A young man's heart, by Heaven's blessing, is
A wide world, where a thousand new-born hopes
Empurple fresh the melancholy blood:
But an old man's is narrow, tenantless
Of hopes, and stuff'd with many memories,
Which, being pleasant, ease the heavy pulse—
Painful, clog up and stagnate. Weigh this matter
Even as a miser balances his coin;
And, in the name of mercy, give command
That your knight Albert be brought here before you.
He will expound this riddle; he will show
A noon-day proof of bad Auranthe's guilt.
Let Albert straight be summon'd.
Impossible!
I cannot doubt—I will not—no—to doubt
Is to be ashes!—wither'd up to death!
My gentle Ludolph, harbour not a fear;
You do yourself much wrong.
O, wretched dolt!
Now, when my foot is almost on thy neck,
Wilt thou infuriate me? Proof! Thou fool!
Why wilt thou teaze impossibility
With such a thick-skull'd persevering suit?
Fanatic obstinacy! Prodigy!
Monster of folly! Ghost of a turn'd brain!
You puzzle me,—you haunt me,—when I dream
Of you my brain will split! Bald sorcerer!
Juggler! May I come near you? On my soul
I know not whether to pity, curse, or laugh.Enter Albert, and the Nobleman.

Here, Albert, this old phantom wants a proof!
Give him his proof! A camel's load of proofs!
Albert, I speak to you as to a man
Whose words once utter'd pass like current gold;
And therefore fit to calmly put a close
To this brief tempest. Do you stand possess'd
Of any proof against the honourableness
Of Lady Auranthe, our new-spoused daughter?
You chill me with astonishment. How's this?
My Liege, what proof should I have 'gainst a fame
Impossible of slur?
O wickedness!
Deluded monarch, 'tis a cruel lie.
Peace, rebel-priest!
Insult beyond credence!
Almost a dream!
We have awaken'd from
A foolish dream that from my brow hath wrung
A wrathful dew. O folly! why did I
So act the lion with this silly gnat?
Let them depart. Lady Erminia!
I ever griev'd for you, as who did not?
But now you have, with such a brazen front,
So most maliciously, so madly striven
To dazzle the soft moon, when tenderest clouds
Should be unloop'd around to curtain her;
I leave you to the desert of the world
Almost with pleasure. Let them be set free
For me! I take no personal revenge
More than against a nightmare, which a man
Forgets in the new dawn.
Still in extremes! No, they must not be loose.
Albert, I must suspect thee of a crime
So fiendish—
Fear'st thou not my fury, monk?
Conrad, be they in your sure custody
Till we determine some fit punishment.
It is so mad a deed, I must reflect
And question them in private; for perhaps,
By patient scrutiny, we may discover
Whether they merit death, or should be placed
In care of the physicians.
My guards, ho!
Albert, wilt thou follow there?
Wilt thou creep dastardly behind his back,
And slink away from a weak woman's eye?
Turn, thou court-Janus! thou forget'st thyself;
Here is the Duke, waiting with open arms,[Enter Guards.

To thank thee; here congratulate each other;
Wring hands; embrace; and swear how lucky 'twas
That I, by happy chance, hit the right man
Of all the world to trust in.
Trust! to me!
He is the sole one in this mystery.
Well, I give up, and save my prayers for Heaven!
You, who could do this deed, would ne'er relent,
Though, at my words, the hollow prison-vaults
Would groan for pity.
Manacle them both!
I know it—it must be—I see it all!
Albert, thou art the minion!
Ah! too plain—
Silence! Gag up their mouths! I cannot bear
More of this brawling. That the Emperor
Had plac'd you in some other custody!
Bring them away.
Though my name perish from the book of honour,
Almost before the recent ink is dry,
And be no more remember'd after death,
Than any drummer's in the muster-roll;
Yet shall I season high my sudden fall
With triumph o'er that evil-witted duke!
He shall feel what it is to have the hand
Of a man drowning, on his hateful throat.
What discord is at ferment in this house?
We are without conjecture; not a soul
We met could answer any certainty.
Young Ludolph, like a fiery arrow, shot
By us.
The Emperor, with cross'd arms, in thought.
In one room music, in another sadness,
Perplexity every where!
A trifle more!
Follow; your presences will much avail
To tune our jarred spirits. I'll explain.
Well, well, I know what ugly jeopardy
We are cag'd in; you need not pester that
Into my ears. Prythee, let me be spared
A foolish tongue, that I may bethink me
Of remedies with some deliberation.
You cannot doubt but 'tis in Albert's power
To crush or save us?
No, I cannot doubt.
He has, assure yourself, by some strange means,
My secret; which I ever hid from him,
Knowing his mawkish honesty.
Curs'd slave!
Ay, I could almost curse him now myself.
Wretched impediment! Evil genius!
A glue upon my wings, that cannot spread,
When they should span the provinces! A snake,
A scorpion, sprawling on the first gold step,
Conducting to the throne, high canopied.
You would not hear my council, when his life
Might have been trodden out, all sure and hush'd;
Now the dull animal forsooth must be
Intreated, managed! When can you contrive
The interview he demands?
As speedily
It must be done as my brib'd woman can
Unseen conduct him to me; but I fear
'Twill be impossible, while the broad day
Comes through the panes with persecuting glare.
Methinks, if 't now were night I could intrigue
With darkness, bring the stars to second me,
And settle all this trouble.
Nonsense! Child!
See him immediately; why not now?
Do you forget that even the senseless door-posts
Are on the watch and gape through all the house?
How many whisperers there are about,
Hungry for evidence to ruin me;
Men I have spurn'd, and women I have taunted?
Besides, the foolish prince sends, minute whiles,
His pages—so they tell me—to enquire
After my health, entreating, if I please,
To see me.
Well, suppose this Albert here;
What is your power with him?
He should be
My echo, my taught parrot! but I fear
He will be cur enough to bark at me;
Have his own say; read me some silly creed
'Bout shame and pity.
What will you do then?
What I shall do, I know not: what I would
Cannot be done; for see, this chamber-floor
Will not yield to the pick-axe and the spade,—
Here is no quiet depth of hollow ground.
Sister, you have grown sensible and wise,
Seconding, ere I speak it, what is now,
I hope, resolv'd between us.
Say, what is 't?
You need not be his sexton too: a man
May carry that with him shall make him die
Elsewhere,—give that to him; pretend the while
You will to-morrow succumb to his wishes,
Be what they may, and send him from the Castle
On some fool's errand; let his latest groan
Frighten the wolves!
Alas! he must not die!
Would you were both hears'd up in stifling lead!
Detested—
Conrad, hold! I would not bear
The little thunder of your fretful tongue,
Tho' I alone were taken in these toils,
And you could free me; but remember, sir,
You live alone in my security:
So keep your wits at work, for your own sake,
Not mine, and be more mannerly.
Thou wasp!
If my domains were emptied of these folk,
And I had thee to starve—
O, marvellous!
But Conrad, now be gone; the Host is look'd for;
Cringe to the Emperor, entertain the Lords,
And, do ye mind, above all things, proclaim
My sickness, with a brother's sadden'd eye,
Condoling with Prince Ludolph. In fit time
Return to me.
I leave you to your thoughts.
Down, down, proud temper! down, Auranthe's pride!
Why do I anger him when I should kneel?
Conrad! Albert! help! help! What can I do?
O wretched woman! lost, wreck'd, swallow'd up,
Accursed, blasted! O, thou golden Crown,
Orbing along the serene firmament
Of a wide empire, like a glowing moon;
And thou, bright sceptre! lustrous in my eyes,—
There—as the fabled fair Hesperian tree,
Bearing a fruit more precious! graceful thing,
Delicate, godlike, magic! must I leave
Thee to melt in the visionary air,
Ere, by one grasp, this common hand is made
Imperial? I do not know the time
When I have wept for sorrow; but methinks
I could now sit upon the ground, and shed
Tears, tears of misery. O, the heavy day!
How shall I bear my life till Albert comes?
Ludolph! Erminia! Proofs! O heavy day!
Bring me some mourning weeds, that I may 'tire
Myself, as fits one wailing her own death:
Cut off these curls, and brand this lilly hand,
And throw these jewels from my loathing sight,—
Fetch me a missal, and a string of beads,—
A cup of bitter'd water, and a crust,—
I will confess, O holy Abbot!—How!
What is this? Auranthe! thou fool, dolt,
Whimpering idiot! up! up! act and quell!
I am safe! Coward! why am I in fear?
Albert! he cannot stickle, chew the cud
In such a fine extreme,—impossible!
Who knocks?[Goes to the Door, listens, and opens it.
Enter Albert.

Albert, I have been waiting for you here
With such an aching heart, such swooning throbs
On my poor brain, such cruel—cruel sorrow,
That I should claim your pity! Art not well?
Yes, lady, well.
You look not so, alas!
But pale, as if you brought some heavy news.
You know full well what makes me look so pale.
No! Do I? Surely I am still to learn
Some horror; all I know, this present, is
I am near hustled to a dangerous gulph,
Which you can save me from,—and therefore safe,
So trusting in thy love; that should not make
Thee pale, my Albert.
It doth make me freeze.
Why should it, love?
You should not ask me that,
But make your own heart monitor, and save
Me the great pain of telling. You must know.
Something has vext you, Albert. There are times
When simplest things put on a sombre cast;
A melancholy mood will haunt a man,
Until most easy matters take the shape
Of unachievable tasks; small rivulets
Then seem impassable.
Do not cheat yourself
With hope that gloss of words, or suppliant action,
Or tears, or ravings, or self-threaten'd death,
Can alter my resolve.
You make me tremble;
Not so much at your threats, as at your voice,
Untun'd, and harsh, and barren of all love.
You suffocate me! Stop this devil's parley,
And listen to me; know me once for all.
I thought I did. Alas! I am deceiv'd.
No, you are not deceiv'd. You took me for
A man detesting all inhuman crime;
And therefore kept from me your demon's plot
Against Erminia. Silent? Be so still;
For ever! Speak no more; but hear my words,
Thy fate. Your safety I have bought to-day
By blazoning a lie, which in the dawn
I'll expiate with truth.
O cruel traitor!
For I would not set eyes upon thy shame;
I would not see thee dragg'd to death by the hair,
Penanc'd, and taunted on a scaffolding!
To-night, upon the skirts of the blind wood
That blackens northward of these horrid towers,
I wait for you with horses. Choose your fate.
Farewell.
Albert, you jest; I'm sure you must.
You, an ambitious Soldier! I, a Queen,
One who could say,—Here, rule these Provinces!
Take tribute from those cities for thyself!
Empty these armouries, these treasuries,
Muster thy warlike thousands at a nod!
Go! conquer Italy!
Auranthe, you have made
The whole world chaff to me. Your doom is fix'd.
Out, villain! dastard!
Look there to the door!
Who is it?
Conrad, traitor!
Let him in.[Enter Conrad.

Do not affect amazement, hypocrite,
At seeing me in this chamber.
Auranthe?
Talk not with eyes, but speak your curses out
Against me, who would sooner crush and grind
A brace of toads, than league with them to oppress
An innocent lady, gull an Emperor,
More generous to me than autumn's sun
To ripening harvests.
No more insult, sir!
Aye, clutch your scabbard; but, for prudence sake,
Draw not the sword; 'twould make an uproar, Duke,
You would not hear the end of. At nightfall
Your lady sister, if I guess aright,
Will leave this busy castle. You had best
Take farewell too of worldly vanities.
Vassal!
To-morrow, when the Emperor sends
For loving Conrad, see you fawn on him.
Good even!
You'll be seen!
See the coast clear then.
Remorseless Albert! Cruel, cruel wretch!
So, we must lick the dust?
I follow him.
How? Where? The plan of your escape?
He waits
For me with horses by the forest-side,
Northward.
Good, good! he dies. You go, say you?
Perforce.
Be speedy, darkness! Till that comes,
Fiends keep you company!
And you! And you!
And all men! Vanish!
Still very sick, my Lord; but now I went
Knowing my duty to so good a Prince;
And there her women in a mournful throng
Stood in the passage whispering: if any
Mov'd 'twas with careful steps and hush'd as death;
They bid me stop.
Good fellow, once again
Make soft enquiry; prythee be not stay'd
By any hindrance, but with gentlest force
Break through her weeping servants, till thou com'st
E'en to her chamber door, and there, fair boy,
If with thy mother's milk thou hast suck'd in
Any diviner eloquence; woo her ears
With plaints for me more tender than the voice
Of dying Echo, echoed.
Kindest master!
To know thee sad thus, will unloose my tongue
In mournful syllables. Let but my words reach
Her ears and she shall take them coupled with
Moans from my heart and sighs not counterfeit.
May I speed better!
Auranthe! My Life!
Long have I lov'd thee, yet till now not lov'd:
Remembering, as I do, hard-hearted times
When I had heard even of thy death perhaps,
And thoughtless, suffered to pass alone
Into Elysium! now I follow thee
A substance or a shadow, wheresoe'er
Thou leadest me,—whether thy white feet press,
With pleasant weight, the amorous-aching earth.
Or thro' the air thou pioneerest me,
A shade! Yet sadly I predestinate!
O unbenignest Love, why wilt thou let
Darkness steal out upon the sleepy world
So wearily; as if night's chariot wheels
Were clog'd in some thick cloud. O, changeful Love,
Let not her steeds with drowsy-footed pace
Pass the high stars, before sweet embassage
Comes from the pillow'd beauty of that fair
Completion of all delicate nature's wit.
Pout her faint lips anew with rubious health
And with thine infant fingers lift the fringe
Of her sick eyelids; that those eyes may glow
With wooing light upon me, ere the Morn
Peers with disrelish, grey, barren, and cold.Enter Gersa and Courtiers.

Otho calls me his Lion—should I blush
To be so tam'd, so—
Do me the courtesy
Gentlemen to pass on.
We are your servants.
It seems then, Sir, you have found out the man
You would confer with; me?
If I break not
Too much upon your thoughtful mood, I will
Claim a brief while your patience.
For what cause
Soe'er I shall be honour'd.
I not less.
What may it be? No trifle can take place
Of such deliberate prologue, serious 'haviour.
But be it what it may I cannot fail
To listen with no common interest—
For though so new your presence is to me,
I have a soldier's friendship for your fame—
Please you explain.
As thus—for, pardon me,
I cannot in plain terms grossly assault
A noble nature; and would faintly sketch
What your quick apprehension will fill up
So finely I esteem you.
I attend—
Your generous Father, most illustrious Otho,
Sits in the Banquet room among his chiefs—
His wine is bitter, for you are not there—
His eyes are fix'd still on the open doors,
And every passer in he frowns upon
Seeing no Ludolph comes.
I do neglect—
And for your absence, may I guess the cause?
Stay there! no—guess? more princely you must be—
Than to make guesses at me. 'Tis enough,
I'm sorry I can hear no more.
And I
As griev'd to force it on you so abrupt;
Yet one day you must know a grief whose sting
Will sharpen more the longer 'tis conceal'd.
Say it at once, sir, dead, dead, is she dead?
Mine is a cruel task: she is not dead—
And would for your sake she were innocent—
Thou liest! thou amazest me beyond
All scope of thought; convulsest my heart's blood
To deadly churning—Gersa you are young
As I am; let me observe you face to face;
Not grey-brow'd like the poisonous Ethelbert,
No rheumed eyes, no furrowing of age,
No wrinkles where all vices nestle in
Like crannied vermin—no, but fresh and young
And hopeful featur'd. Ha! by heaven you weep
Tears, human tears—Do you repent you then
Of a curs'd torturer's office! Why shouldst join—
Tell me, the league of Devils? Confess—confess
The Lie.—
Lie!—but begone all ceremonious points
Of honour battailous. I could not turn
My wrath against thee for the orbed world.
Your wrath, weak boy? Tremble at mine unless
Retraction follow close upon the heels
Of that late stounding insult: why has my sword
Not done already a sheer judgment on thee?
Despair, or eat thy words. Why, thou wast nigh
Whimpering away my reason: hark ye, Sir,
It is no secret;—that Erminia,
Erminia, Sir, was hidden in your tent;
O bless'd asylum! comfortable home!
Begone, I pity thee, thou art a Gull—
Erminia's last new puppet—
Furious fire!
Thou mak'st me boil as hot as thou canst flame!
And in thy teeth I give thee back the lie!
Thou liest! Thou, Auranthe's fool, a wittol—
Look! look at this bright sword;
There is no part of it to the very hilt
But shall indulge itself about thine heart—
Draw—but remember thou must cower thy plumes,
As yesterday the Arab made thee stoop—
Patience! not here, I would not spill thy blood
Here underneath this roof where Otho breathes,
Thy father—almost mine—
O faltering coward—Re-enter Page.

Stay, stay, here is one I have half a word with—
Well—What ails thee child?
My lord,
Good fellow!
They are fled!
They—who?
When anxiously
I hasten'd back, your grieving messenger,
I found the stairs all dark, the lamps extinct,
And not a foot or whisper to be heard.
I thought her dead, and on the lowest step
Sat listening; when presently came by
Two muffled up,—one sighing heavily,
The other cursing low, whose voice I knew
For the Duke Conrad's. Close I follow'd them
Thro' the dark ways they chose to the open air;
And, as I follow'd, heard my lady speak.
Thy life answers the truth!
The chamber's empty!
As I will be of mercy! So, at last,
This nail is in my temples!
Be calm in this.
I am.
And Albert too has disappear'd;
Ere I met you, I sought him everywhere;
You would not hearken.
Which way went they, boy?
I'll hunt with you.
No, no, no. My senses are
Still whole. I have surviv'd. My arm is strong—
My appetite sharp—for revenge! I'll no sharer
In my feast; my injury is all my own,
And so is my revenge, my lawful chattels!
Terrier, ferret them out! Burn—burn the witch!
Trace me their footsteps! Away!
Go no further; not a step more; thou art
A master-plague in the midst of miseries.
Go—I fear thee. I tremble every limb,
Who never shook before. There's moody death
In thy resolved looks—Yes, I could kneel
To pray thee far away. Conrad, go, go—
There! yonder underneath the boughs I see
Our horses!
Aye, and the man.
Yes, he is there.
Go, go,—no blood, no blood; go, gentle Conrad!
Farewell!
Farewell, for this Heaven pardon you.
If he survive one hour, then may I die
In unimagined tortures—or breathe through
A long life in the foulest sink of the world!
He dies—'tis well she do not advertise
The caitiff of the cold steel at his back.
Miss'd the way, boy, say not that on your peril!
Indeed, indeed I cannot trace them further.
Must I stop here? Here solitary die?
Stifled beneath the thick oppressive shade
Of these dull boughs,—this oven of dark thickets,—
Silent,—without revenge?—pshaw!—bitter end,—
A bitter death,—a suffocating death,—
A gnawing—silent—deadly, quiet death!
Escap'd?—fled?—vanish'd? melted into air?
She's gone! I cannot clutch her! no revenge!
A muffled death, ensnar'd in horrid silence!
Suck'd to my grave amid a dreamy calm!
O, where is that illustrious noise of war,
To smother up this sound of labouring breath,
This rustle of the trees!
My Lord, a noise!
This way—hark!
Yes, yes! A hope! A music!
A glorious clamour! How I live again!
O for enough life to support me on
To Otho's feet—
Thrice villainous, stay there!
Tell me where that detested woman is
Or this is through thee!
My good Prince, with me
The sword has done its worst; not without worst
Done to another—Conrad has it home—
I see you know it all—
Where is his sister?
Albert!
Ha! There! there!—He is the paramour!—
There—hug him—dying! O, thou innocence,
Shrine him and comfort him at his last gasp,
Kiss down his eyelids! Was he not thy love?
Wilt thou forsake him at his latest hour?
Keep fearful and aloof from his last gaze,
His most uneasy moments, when cold death
Stands with the door ajar to let him in?
O that that door with hollow slam would close
Upon me sudden, for I cannot meet,
In all the unknown chambers of the dead,
Such horrors—
Auranthe! what can he mean?
What horrors? Is it not a joyous time?
Am I not married to a paragon
“Of personal beauty and untainted soul?”
A blushing fair-eyed Purity! A Sylph,
Whose snowy timid hand has never sin'd
Beyond a flower pluck'd, white as itself?
Albert, you do insult my Bride—your Mistress—
To talk of horrors on our wedding night.
Alas! poor Prince, I would you knew my heart.
'Tis not so guilty—
Hear you he pleads not guilty—
You are not? or if so what matters it?
You have escap'd me,—free as the dusk air—
Hid in the forest—safe from my revenge;
I cannot catch you—You should laugh at me,
Poor cheated Ludolph,—make the forest hiss
With jeers at me—You tremble; faint at once,
You will come to again. O Cockatrice,
I have you. Whither wander those fair eyes
To entice the Devil to your help, that he
May change you to a Spider, so to crawl
Into some cranny to escape my wrath?
Sometimes the counsel of a dying man
Doth operate quietly when his breath is gone—
Disjoin those hands—part—part, do not destroy
Each other—forget her—our miseries
Are equal shar'd, and mercy is—
A boon
When one can compass it. Auranthe, try
Your oratory—your breath is not so hitch'd—
Aye, stare for help—[Albert groans and dies.

There goes a spotted soul
Howling in vain along the hollow night—
Hear him—he calls you—Sweet Auranthe, come!
Kill me.
No! What? upon our Marriage-night!
The earth would shudder at so foul a deed—
A fair Bride, a sweet Bride, an innocent Bride!
No, we must revel it, as 'tis in use
In times of delicate brilliant ceremony:
Come, let me lead you to our halls again—
Nay, linger not—make no resistance sweet—
Will you—Ah wretch, thou canst not, for I have
The strength of twenty lions 'gainst a lamb—
Now one adieu for Albert—come away.—
Was ever such a night?
What horrors more?
Things unbeliev'd one hour, so strange they are,
The next hour stamps with credit.
Your last news?
After the Page's story of the death
Of Albert and Duke Conrad?
And the return
Of Ludolph with the Princess.
No more save
Prince Gersa's freeing Abbot Ethelbert,
And the sweet lady, fair Erminia,
From prison.
Where are they now? hast yet heard?
With the sad Emperor they are closeted;
I saw the three pass slowly up the stairs,
The lady weeping, the old Abbot cowl'd.
What next?
I ache to think on't.
'Tis with fate.
One while these proud towers are hush'd as death.
The next our poor Prince fills the arched rooms
With ghastly ravings.
I do fear his brain.
I will see more. Bear you so stout a heart?
O, my poor Boy! my Son! my Son! my Ludolph!
Have ye no comfort for me, ye Physicians
Of the weak Body and Soul?
'Tis not the Medicine
Either of heaven or earth can cure unless
Fit time be chosen to administer—
A kind forbearance, holy Abbot—come
Erminia, here sit by me, gentle Girl;
Give me thy hand—hast thou forgiven me?
Would I were with the saints to pray for you!
Why will ye keep me from my darling child?
Forgive me, but he must not see thy face—
Is then a father's countenance a Gorgon?
Hath it not comfort in it? Would it not
Console my poor Boy, cheer him, heal his spirits?
Let me embrace him, let me speak to him—
I will—who hinders me? Who's Emperor?
You may not, Sire—'twould overwhelm him quite,
He is so full of grief and passionate wrath,
Too heavy a sigh would kill him—or do worse.
He must be sav'd by fine contrivances—
And most especially we must keep clear
Out of his sight a Father whom he loves—
His heart is full, it can contain no more,
And do its ruddy office.
Sage advice;
We must endeavour how to ease and slacken
The tight-wound energies of his despair,
Not make them tenser—
Enough! I hear, I hear.
Yet you were about to advise more—I listen.
This learned doctor will agree with me,
That not in the smallest point should he be thwarted
Or gainsaid by one word—his very motions,
Nods, becks and hints, should be obey'd with care,
Even on the moment: so his troubled mind
May cure itself—
There is no other means.
Open the door: let's hear if all is quiet—
Beseech you, Sire, forbear.
Do, do.
I command!
Open it straight—hush!—quiet—my lost Boy!
My miserable Child!
Fill, fill my goblet,—
Here's a health!
O, close the door!
Let, let me hear his voice; this cannot last—
And fain would I catch up his dying words
Though my own knell they be—this cannot last—
O let me catch his voice—for lo! I hear
This silence whisper me that he is dead!
It is so. Gersa?
Say, how fares the prince?
More calm—his features are less wild and flush'd—
Once he complain'd of weariness—
Indeed!
'Tis good—'tis good—let him but fall asleep,
That saves him.
Gersa, watch him like a child—
Ward him from harm—and bring me better news—
Humour him to the height. I fear to go;
For should he catch a glimpse of my dull garb,
It might affright him—fill him with suspicion
That we believe him sick, which must not be—
I will invent what soothing means I can.
This should cheer up your Highness—weariness
Is a good symptom, and most favourable—
It gives me pleasant hopes. Please you walk forth
Onto the Terrace; the refreshing air
Will blow one half of your sad doubts away.
Grievously are we tantaliz'd, one and all—
Sway'd here and there, commanded to and fro
As though we were the shadows of a dream
And link'd to a sleeping fancy. What do we here?
I am no Seer—you know we must obey
The prince from A to Z—though it should be
To set the place in flames. I pray hast heard
Where the most wicked Princess is?
There, Sir,
In the next room—have you remark'd those two
Stout soldiers posted at the door?
For what?
How ghast a train!
Sure this should be some splendid burial.
What fearful whispering! See, see—Gersa there!
Put on your brightest looks; smile if you can;
Behave as all were happy; keep your eyes
From the least watch upon him; if he speaks
To any one, answer collectedly,
Without surprise, his questions, howe'er strange.
Do this to the utmost,—though, alas! with me
The remedy grows hopeless! Here he comes,—
Observe what I have said,—show no surprise.
A splendid company! rare beauties here!
I should have Orphean lips, and Plato's fancy,
Amphion's utterance, toned with his lyre,
Or the deep key of Jove's sonorous mouth,
To give fit salutation. Methought I heard,
As I came in, some whispers,—what of that?
'Tis natural men should whisper; at the kiss
Of Psyche given by Love, there was a buzz
Among the gods!—and silence is as natural.
These draperies are fine, and, being a mortal,
I should desire no better; yet, in truth,
There must be some superior costliness,
Some wider-domed high magnificence!
I would have, as a mortal I may not,
Hanging of heaven's clouds, purple and gold,
Slung from the spheres; gauzes of silver mist,
Loop'd up with cords of twisted wreathed light,
And tassell'd round with weeping meteors!
These pendent lamps and chandeliers are bright
As earthly fires from dull dross can be cleansed;
Yet could my eyes drink up intenser beams
Undazzled,—this is darkness,—when I close
These lids, I see far fiercer brilliances,—
Skies full of splendid moons, and shooting stars,
And spouting exhalations, diamond fires,
And panting fountains quivering with deep glows!
Yes—this is dark—is it not dark?
My Lord,
'Tis late; the lights of festival are ever
Quench'd in the morn.
'Tis not to-morrow then?
'Tis early dawn.
Indeed full time we slept;
Say you so, Prince?
I say I quarrell'd with you;
We did not tilt each other,—that's a blessing,—
Good gods! no innocent blood upon my head!
Retire, Gersa!
There should be three more here:
For two of them, they stay away perhaps,
Being gloomy-minded, haters of fair revels,—
They know their own thoughts best.
As for the third,
Deep blue eyes—semi-shaded in white lids,
Finish'd with lashes fine for more soft shade,
Completed by her twin-arch'd ebon brows—
White temples of exactest elegance,
Of even mould felicitous and smooth—
Cheeks fashion'd tenderly on either side,
So perfect, so divine that our poor eyes
And dazzled with the sweet proportioning,
And wonder that 'tis so,—the magic chance!
Her nostrils, small, fragrant, faery-delicate;
Her lips—I swear no human bones e'er wore
So taking a disguise—you shall behold her!
We'll have her presently; aye, you shall see her,
And wonder at her, friends, she is so fair—
She is the world's chief Jewel, and by heaven
She's mine by right of marriage—she is mine!
Patience, good people, in fit time I send
A Summoner—she will obey my call,
Being a wife most mild and dutiful.
First I would hear what music is prepared
To herald and receive her—let me hear!
Bid the musicians soothe him tenderly.
Ye have none better—no—I am content;
'Tis a rich sobbing melody, with reliefs
Full and majestic; it is well enough,
And will be sweeter, when ye see her pace
Sweeping into this presence, glisten'd o'er
With emptied caskets, and her train upheld
By ladies, habited in robes of lawn,
Sprinkled with golden crescents; (others bright
In silks, with spangles shower'd,) and bow'd to
By Duchesses and pearled Margravines—
Sad, that the fairest creature of the earth—
I pray you mind me not—'tis sad, I say,
That the extremest beauty of the world
Should so entrench herself away from me,
Behind a barrier of engender'd guilt!
Ah! what a moan!
Most piteous indeed!
She shall be brought before this company,
And then—then—
He muses.
O, Fortune, where will this end?
I guess his purpose! Indeed he must not have
That pestilence brought in,—that cannot be,
There we must stop him.
I am lost! Hush, hush!
He is about to rave again.
A barrier of guilt! I was the fool.
She was the cheater! Who's the cheater now,
And who the fool? The entrapp'd, the caged fool,
The bird-lim'd raven? She shall croak to death
Secure! Methinks I have her in my fist,
To crush her with my heel! Wait, wait! I marvel
My father keeps away: good friend, ah! Sigifred!
Do bring him to me—and Erminia
I fain would see before I sleep—and Ethelbert,
That he may bless me, as I know he will
Though I have curs'd him.
Rather suffer me
To lead you to them—
No, excuse me, no—
The day is not quite done—go bring them hither.[Exit Sigifred.

Certes, a father's smile should, like sun light,
Slant on my sheafed harvest of ripe bliss—
Besides, I thirst to pledge my lovely Bride
In a deep goblet: let me see—what wine?
The strong Iberian juice, or mellow Greek?
Or pale Calabrian? Or the Tuscan grape?
Or of old Ætna's pulpy wine presses,
Black stain'd with the fat vintage, as it were
The purple slaughter-house, where Bacchus' self
Prick'd his own swollen veins? Where is my Page?
Here, here!
Be ready to obey me; anon thou shalt
Bear a soft message for me—for the hour
Draws near when I must make a winding up
Of bridal Mysteries—a fine-spun vengeance!
Carve it on my Tomb, that when I rest beneath
Men shall confess—This Prince was gull'd and cheated,
But from the ashes of disgrace he rose
More than a fiery Phœnix—and did burn
His ignominy up in purging fires—
Did I not send, Sir, but a moment past,
For my Father?
You did.
Perhaps 'twould be
Much better he came not.
He enters now!
O thou good Man, against whose sacred head
I was a mad conspirator, chiefly too
For the sake of my fair newly wedded wife,
Now to be punish'd, do not look so sad!
Those charitable eyes will thaw my heart,
Those tears will wash away a just resolve,
A verdict ten times sworn! Awake—awake—
Put on a judge's brow, and use a tongue
Made iron-stern by habit! Thou shalt see
A deed to be applauded, 'scribed in gold!
Join a loud voice to mine, and so denounce
What I alone will execute!
Dear son,
What is it? By your father's love, I sue
That it be nothing merciless!
To that demon?
Not so! No! She is in temple-stall
Being garnish'd for the sacrifice, and I,
The Priest of Justice, will immolate her
Upon the altar of wrath! She stings me through!—
Even as the worm doth feed upon the nut,
So she, a scorpion, preys upon my brain!
I feel her gnawing here! Let her but vanish,
Then, father, I will lead your legions forth,
Compact in steeled squares, and speared files,
And bid our trumpets speak a fell rebuke
To nations drows'd in peace!
To-morrow, Son,
Be your word law—forget to-day—
I will
When I have finish'd it—now! now! I'm pight,
Tight-footed for the deed!
Alas! Alas!
What Angel's voice is that? Erminia!
Ah! gentlest creature, whose sweet innocence
Was almost murder'd; I am penitent,
Wilt thou forgive me? And thou, holy Man,
Good Ethelbert, shall I die in peace with you?
Die, my lord!
I feel it possible.
Physician?
I fear me he is past my skill.
Not so!
I see it, I see it—I have been wandering—
Half-mad—not right here—I forget my purpose.
Bestir, bestir, Auranthe! ha! ha! ha!
Youngster! Page! go bid them drag her to me!
Obey! This shall finish it!
O my Son! my Son!
This must not be—stop there!
Am I obey'd?
A little talk with her—no harm—haste! haste![Exit Page.

Set her before me—never fear I can strike.
My Lord! My Lord!
Good Prince!
Why do ye trouble me? out—out—out away!
There she is! take that! and that! no, no—
That's not well done—Where is she?
Alas! My Lord, my Lord! they cannot move her!
Her arms are stiff,—her fingers clench'd and cold—
She's dead!
Take away the dagger.
Softly; so!
Thank God for that!
I fear it could not harm him.
No!—brief be his anguish!
She's gone—I am content—Nobles, good night!
We are all weary—faint—set ope the doors—
I will to bed!—To-morrow—



Cat! who hast pass'd thy grand climacteric,
    How many mice and rats hast in thy days
    Destroy'd?—How many tit bits stolen? Gaze
With those bright languid segments green, and prick
Those velvet ears—but pr'ythee do not stick
    Thy latent talons in me—and upraise
    Thy gentle mew—and tell me all thy frays
Of fish and mice, and rats and tender chick.
Nay, look not down, nor lick thy dainty wrists—
    For all the wheezy asthma,—and for all
Thy tail's tip is nick'd off—and though the fists
    Of many a maid have given thee many a maul,
Still is that fur as soft as when the lists
    In youth thou enter'dst on glass bottled wall.



Time's sea hath been five years at its slow ebb,
    Long hours have to and fro let creep the sand,
Since I was tangled in thy beauty's web,
    And snared by the ungloving of thine hand.
And yet I never look on midnight sky,
    But I behold thine eyes' well memory'd light;
I cannot look upon the rose's dye,
    But to thy cheek my soul doth take its flight.
I cannot look on any budding flower,
    But my fond ear, in fancy at thy lips
And hearkening for a love-sound, doth devour
    Its sweets in the wrong sense:—Thou dost eclipse
Every delight with sweet remembering,
And grief unto my darling joys dost bring.



Son of the old moon-mountains African!
    Chief of the Pyramid and Crocodile!
    We call thee fruitful, and, that very while,
A desert fills our seeing's inward span;
Nurse of swart nations since the world began,
    Art thou so fruitful? or dost thou beguile
    Such men to honour thee, who, worn with toil,
Rest for a space 'twixt Cairo and Decan?
O may dark fancies err! they surely do;
    'Tis ignorance that makes a barren waste
Of all beyond itself, thou dost bedew
    Green rushes like our rivers, and dost taste
The pleasant sun-rise, green isles hast thou too,
    And to the sea as happily dost haste.



O that a week could be an age, and we
    Felt parting and warm meeting every week,
Then one poor year a thousand years would be,
    The flush of welcome ever on the cheek:
So could we live long life in little space,
    So time itself would be annihilate,
So a day's journey in oblivious haze
    To serve our joys would lengthen and dilate.
O to arrive each Monday morn from Ind!
    To land each Tuesday from the rich Levant!
In little time a host of joys to bind,
    And keep our souls in one eternal pant!
This morn, my friend, and yester-evening taught
Me how to harbour such a happy thought.



What is there in the universal earth
More lovely than a wreath from the bay tree?
    Haply a halo round the moon—a glee
Circling from three sweet pair of lips in mirth;
And haply you will say the dewy birth
    Of morning roses—ripplings tenderly
    Spread by the halcyon's breast upon the sea—
But these comparisons are nothing worth.
Then is there nothing in the world so fair?
    The silvery tears of April? Youth of May?
Or June that breathes out life for butterflies?
    No—none of these can from my favorite bear
Away the palm—yet shall it ever pay
    Due reverence to your most sovereign eyes.



O thou whose face hath felt the Winter's wind,
    Whose eye has seen the snow-clouds hung in mist,
    And the black elm tops 'mong the freezing stars,
    To thee the spring will be a harvest-time.
O thou, whose only book has been the light
    Of supreme darkness which thou feddest on
    Night after night when Phœbus was away,
    To thee the Spring shall be a triple morn.
O fret not after knowledge—I have none,
    And yet my song comes native with the warmth.
O fret not after knowledge—I have none,
    And yet the Evening listens. He who saddens
At thought of idleness cannot be idle,
And he's awake who thinks himself asleep.



Four seasons fill the measure of the year;
    There are four seasons in the mind of man:
He has his lusty Spring, when fancy clear
    Takes in all beauty with an easy span:
He has his Summer, when luxuriously
    Spring's honied cud of youthful thought he loves
To ruminate, and by such dreaming nigh
    His nearest unto heaven: quiet coves
His soul has in its Autumn, when his wings
    He furleth close; contented so to look
On mists in idleness—to let fair things
    Pass by unheeded as a threshold brook.
He has his Winter too of pale misfeature,
Or else he would forego his mortal nature.



Ah! woe is me! poor silver-wing!
    That I must chant thy lady's dirge,
And death to this fair haunt of spring,
    Of melody, and streams of flowery verge,—
Poor silver-wing! ah! woe is me!
        That I must see
These blossoms snow upon thy lady's pall!
    Go, pretty page! and in her ear
    Whisper that the hour is near!
    Softly tell her not to fear
Such calm favonian burial!
    Go, pretty page! and soothly tell,—
    The blossoms hang by a melting spell,
And fall they must, ere a star wink thrice
        Upon her closed eyes,
That now in vain are weeping their last tears,
    At sweet life leaving, and these arbours green,—
Rich dowry from the Spirit of the Spheres,—
        Alas! poor Queen!



Souls of Poets dead and gone,
What Elysium have ye known,
Happy field or mossy cavern,
Choicer than the Mermaid Tavern?
Have ye tippled drink more fine
Than mine host's Canary wine?
Or are fruits of Paradise
Sweeter than those dainty pies
Of venison? O generous food!
Drest as though bold Robin Hood
Would, with his maid Marian,
Sup and bowse from horn and can.
I have heard that on a day
Mine host's sign-board flew away,
Nobody knew whither, till
An astrologer's old quill
To a sheepskin gave the story,
Said he saw you in your glory,
Underneath a new old-sign
Sipping beverage divine,
And pledging with contented smack
The Mermaid in the Zodiac.
Souls of Poets dead and gone,
What Elysium have ye known,
Happy field or mossy cavern,
Choicer than the Mermaid Tavern?



Come hither all sweet maidens soberly,
    Down-looking aye, and with a chasten'd light,
    Hid in the fringes of your eyelids white,
And meekly let your fair hands joined be,
As if so gentle that ye could not see,
    Untouch'd, a victim of your beauty bright,
    Sinking away to his young spirit's night,—
Sinking bewilder'd 'mid the dreary sea:
'Tis young Leander toiling to his death;
    Nigh swooning, he doth purse his weary lips
        For Hero's cheek, and smiles against her smile.
    O horrid dream! see how his body dips
        Dead-heavy; arms and shoulders gleam awhile:
He's gone; up bubbles all his amorous breath!



Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold
And many goodly states and kingdoms seen;
Round many western islands have I been
Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold.
Oft of one wide expanse had I been told
That deep-brow'd Homer ruled as his demesne:
Yet did I never breathe its pure serene
Till I heard Chapman speak out loud and bold:
—Then felt I like some watcher of the skies
When a new planet swims into his ken;
Or like stout Cortez, when with eagle eyes
He stared at the Pacific—and all his men
Look'd at each other with a wild surmise—
Silent, upon a peak in Darien.



Bards of Passion and of Mirth
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Have ye souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new?
—Yes, and those of heaven commune
With the spheres of sun and moon;
With the noise of fountains wond'rous
And the parle of voices thund'rous;
With the whisper of heaven's trees
And one another, in soft ease
Seated on Elysian lawns
Browsed by none but Dian's fawns;
Underneath large blue-bells tented,
Where the daisies are rose-scented,
And the rose herself has got
Perfume which on earth is not;
Where the nightingale doth sing
Not a senseless, trancéd thing,
But divine melodious truth;
Philosophic numbers smooth;
Tales and golden histories
Of heaven and its mysteries.
Thus ye live on high, and then
On the earth ye live again;
And the souls ye left behind you
Teach us, here, the way to find you,
Where your other souls are joying,
Never slumber'd, never cloying.
Here, your earth-born souls still speak
To mortals, of their little week;
Of their sorrows and delights;
Of their passions and their spites;
Of their glory and their shame;
What doth strengthen and what maim:—
Thus ye teach us, every day,
Wisdom, though fled far away.
Bards of Passion and of Mirth
Ye have left your souls on earth!
Ye have souls in heaven too,
Double-lived in regions new!



In short, convince you that however wise
You may have grown from Convent libraries,
I have, by many yards at least, been carding
A longer skein of wit in Convent garden.
A very Eden that same place must be!
Pray what demesne? Whose Lordship's legacy?
What have you convents in that Gothic Isle?
Pray pardon me, I cannot help but smile.[....]
Sir, Convent Garden is a monstrous beast,
From morning, four o'clock, to twelve at noon,
It swallows cabbages without a spoon,
And then, from 12 till two, this Eden made is
A promenade for cooks and ancient ladies;
And then for supper, 'stead of soup and poaches,
It swallows chairmen, damns, and Hackney coaches.
In short, Sir, 'tis a very place for monks,
For it containeth twenty thousand punks,
Which any man may number for his sport,
By following fat elbows up a court.[....]
In such like nonsense would I pass an hour
With random Friar, or Rake upon his tour,
Or one of few of that imperial host
Who came unmaimed from the Russian frost.
In short, convince you that however wise
You may have grown from Convent libraries,
I have, by many yards at least, been carding
A longer skein of wit in Convent garden.
A very Eden that same place must be!
Pray what demesne? Whose Lordship's legacy?
What have you convents in that Gothic Isle?
Pray pardon me, I cannot help but smile.[....]
Sir, Convent Garden is a monstrous beast,
From morning, four o'clock, to twelve at noon,
It swallows cabbages without a spoon,
And then, from 12 till two, this Eden made is
A promenade for cooks and ancient ladies;
And then for supper, 'stead of soup and poaches,
It swallows chairmen, damns, and Hackney coaches.
In short, Sir, 'tis a very place for monks,
For it containeth twenty thousand punks,
Which any man may number for his sport,
By following fat elbows up a court.[....]
In such like nonsense would I pass an hour
With random Friar, or Rake upon his tour,
Or one of few of that imperial host
Who came unmaimed from the Russian frost.
To-night I'll have my friar—let me think
About my room,—I'll have it in the pink;
It should be rich and sombre, and the moon,
Just in its mid-life in the midst of June,
Should look thro' four large windows and display
Clear, but for gold-fish vases in the way,
Their glassy diamonding on Turkish floor;
The tapers keep aside, an hour and more,
To see what else the moon alone can show;
While the night-breeze doth softly let us know
My terrace is well bower'd with oranges.
Upon the floor the dullest spirit sees
A guitar-ribband and a lady's glove
Beside a crumple-leaved tale of love;
A tambour-frame, with Venus sleeping there,
All finish'd but some ringlets of her hair;
A viol-bow, strings torn, cross-wise upon
A glorious folio of Anacreon;
A skull upon a mat of roses lying,
Ink'd purple with a song concerning dying;
An hour-glass on the turn, amid the trails
Of passion-flower;—just in time there sails
A cloud across the moon,—the lights bring in!
And see what more my phantasy can win.
It is a gorgeous room, but somewhat sad;
The draperies are so, as tho' they had
Been made for Cleopatra's winding-sheet;
And opposite the stedfast eye doth meet
A spacious looking-glass, upon whose face,
In letters raven-sombre, you may trace
Old “Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin.”
Greek busts and statuary have ever been
Held, by the finest spirits, fitter far
Than vase grotesque and Siamesian jar;
Therefore 'tis sure a want of Attic taste
That I should rather love a Gothic waste
Of eyesight on cinque-coloured potter's clay,
Than on the marble fairness of old Greece.
My table-coverlits of Jason's fleece
And black Numidian sheep-wool should be wrought,
Gold, black, and heavy, from the Lama brought.
My ebon sofas should delicious be
With down from Leda's cygnet progeny.
My pictures all Salvator's, save a few
Of Titian's portraiture, and one, though new,
Of Haydon's in its fresh magnificence.
My wine—O good! 'tis here at my desire,
And I must sit to supper with my friar.[....]



You say you love; but with a voice
        Chaster than a nun's, who singeth
The soft Vespers to herself
    While the chime-bell ringeth—
        O love me truly!
You say you love; but with a smile
    Cold as sunrise in September,
As you were Saint Cupid's nun,
    And kept his weeks of Ember.
        O love me truly!
You say you love,—but then your lips
    Coral tinted teach no blisses,
More than coral in the sea—
    They never pout for kisses—
        O love me truly!
You say you love; but then your hand
    No soft squeeze for squeeze returneth,
It is, like a statue's, dead,
    While mine to passion burneth—
        O love me truly!
O breathe a word or two of fire!
    Smile, as if those words should burn me.
Squeeze as lovers should—O kiss
    And in thy heart inurn me!
        O love me truly!



My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
    My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk,
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
    One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk:
'Tis not through envy of thy happy lot,
    But being too happy in thine happiness,—
        That thou, light-winged Dryad of the trees,
            In some melodious plot
    Of beechen green, and shadows numberless,
        Singest of summer in full-throated ease.
O, for a draught of vintage! that hath been
    Cool'd a long age in the deep-delved earth,
Tasting of Flora and the country green,
    Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth!
O for a beaker full of the warm South,
    Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene,
        With beaded bubbles winking at the brim,
            And purple-stained mouth;
    That I might drink, and leave the world unseen,
        And with thee fade away into the forest dim:
Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget
    What thou among the leaves hast never known,
The weariness, the fever, and the fret
    Here, where men sit and hear each other groan;
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last gray hairs,
    Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies;
        Where but to think is to be full of sorrow
            And leaden-eyed despairs,
    Where Beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes,
        Or new Love pine at them beyond to-morrow.
Away! away! for I will fly to thee,
    Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards,
But on the viewless wings of Poesy,
    Though the dull brain perplexes and retards:
Already with thee! tender is the night,
    And haply the Queen-Moon is on her throne,
        Cluster'd around by all her starry Fays;
            But here there is no light,
    Save what from heaven is with the breezes blown
        Through verdurous glooms and winding mossy ways.
I cannot see what flowers are at my feet,
    Nor what soft incense hangs upon the boughs,
But, in embalmed darkness, guess each sweet
    Wherewith the seasonable month endows
The grass, the thicket, and the fruit-tree wild;
    White hawthorn, and the pastoral eglantine;
        Fast fading violets cover'd up in leaves;
            And mid-May's eldest child,
    The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine,
        The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves.
Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
    I have been half in love with easeful Death,
Call'd him soft names in many a mused rhyme,
    To take into the air my quiet breath;
Now more than ever seems it rich to die,
    To cease upon the midnight with no pain,
        While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad
            In such an ecstacy!
    Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain—
        To thy high requiem become a sod.
Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!
    No hungry generations tread thee down;
The voice I hear this passing night was heard
    In ancient days by emperor and clown:
Perhaps the self-same song that found a path
    Through the sad heart of Ruth, when, sick for home,
        She stood in tears amid the alien corn;
            The same that oft-times hath
    Charm'd magic casements, opening on the foam
        Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.
Forlorn! the very word is like a bell
    To toll me back from thee to my sole self!
Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well
    As she is fam'd to do, deceiving elf.
Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades
    Past the near meadows, over the still stream,
        Up the hill-side; and now 'tis buried deep
            In the next valley-glades:
    Was it a vision, or a waking dream?
        Fled is that music:—Do I wake or sleep?



When wedding fiddles are a-playing,
    Huzza for folly O!
And when maidens go a-maying,
    Huzza, &c.
When a milk-pail is upset,
    Huzza, &c.
And the clothes left in the wet,
    Huzza, &c.
When the barrel's set abroach,
    Huzza, &c.
When Kate Eyebrow keeps a coach,
    Huzza, &c.
When the pig is over-roasted,
    Huzza, &c.
And the cheese is over-toasted,
    Huzza, &c.
When Sir Snap is with his lawyer,
    Huzza, &c.
And Miss Chip has kiss'd the sawyer,
    Huzza, &c.



The stranger lighted from his steed,
    And ere he spake a word,
He seiz'd my lady's lilly hand,
    And kiss'd it all unheard.
The stranger walk'd into the hall,
    And ere he spake a word,
He kiss'd my lady's cherry lips,
    And kiss'd 'em all unheard.
The stranger walk'd into the bower,—
    But my lady first did go,—
Aye hand in hand into the bower,
    Where my lord's roses blow.
My lady's maid had a silken scarf,
    And a golden ring had she,
And a kiss from the stranger, as off he went
    Again on his fair palfrey.



Haydon! forgive me that I cannot speak
    Definitively on these mighty things;
    Forgive me that I have not Eagle's wings—
That what I want I know not where to seek:
And think that I would not be over meek
    In rolling out upfollow'd thunderings,
    Even to the steep of Heliconian springs,
Were I of ample strength for such a freak—
Think too, that all those numbers should be thine;
    Whose else? In this who touch thy vesture's hem?
For when men star'd at what was most divine
    With browless idiotism—o'erwise phlegm—
Thou hadst beheld the Hesperean shine
    Of their star in the East, and gone to worship them.



When I have fears that I may cease to be
Before my pen has glean'd my teeming brain,
Before high-piléd books, in charact'ry
Hold like rich garners the full-ripen'd grain;
When I behold, upon the night's starr'd face,
Huge cloudy symbols of a high romance,
And think that I may never live to trace
Their shadows, with the magic hand of chance;
And when I feel, fair Creature of an hour!
That I shall never look upon thee more,
Never have relish in the faery power
Of unreflecting love—then on the shore
Of the wide world I stand alone, and think
Till Love and Fame to nothingness do sink.



To one who has been long in city pent,
'Tis very sweet to look into the fair
And open face of heaven,—to breathe a prayer
Full in the smile of the blue firmament.
Who is more happy, when, with heart's content,
Fatigued he sinks into some pleasant lair
Of wavy grass, and reads a debonair
And gentle tale of love and languishment?
Returning home at evening, with an ear
Catching the notes of Philomel,—an eye
Watching the sailing cloudlet's bright career,
He mourns that day so soon has glided by:
E'en like the passage of an angel's tear
That falls through the clear ether silently.



Bright Star! would I were steadfast as thou art—
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night,
And watching, with eternal lids apart,
Like Nature's patient sleepless Eremite,
The moving waters at their priestlike task
Of pure ablution round earth's human shores,
Or gazing on the new soft fallen mask
Of snow upon the mountains and the moors:—
No—yet still steadfast, still unchangeable,
Pillow'd upon my fair Love's ripening breast
To feel for ever its soft fall and swell,
Awake for ever in a sweet unrest;
Still, still to hear her tender-taken breath,
And so live ever,—or else swoon to death.



Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness,
    Thou foster-child of silence and slow time,
Sylvan historian, who canst thus express
    A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme:
What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shape
    Of deities or mortals, or of both,
        In Tempé or the dales of Arcady?
What men or gods are these? What maidens loth?
    What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?
        What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?
Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
    Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;
Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear'd,
    Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:
Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
    Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;
        Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss,
Though winning near the goal—yet, do not grieve;
    She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
        For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!
Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed
    Your leaves, nor ever bid the Spring adieu;
And, happy melodist, unweariéd,
    For ever piping songs for ever new;
More happy love! more happy, happy love!
    For ever warm and still to be enjoy'd,
        For ever panting, and for ever young;
All breathing human passion far above,
    That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy'd,
        A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.
Who are these coming to the sacrifice?
    To what green altar, O mysterious priest,
Lead'st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,
    And all her silken flanks with garlands drest?
What little town by river or sea shore,
    Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel,
        Is emptied of this folk, this pious morn?
And, little town, thy streets for evermore
    Will silent be; and not a soul to tell
        Why thou art desolate, can e'er return.
O Attic shape! Fair attitude! with brede
    Of marble men and maidens overwrought,
With forest branches and the trodden weed;
    Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thought
As doth eternity: Cold Pastoral!
    When old age shall this generation waste,
        Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe
Than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say'st,
    ‘Beauty is truth, truth beauty,’—that is all
        Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.



Give me your patience Sister while I frame
Exact in Capitals your golden name
Or sue the fair Apollo and he will
Rouse from his heavy slumber and instil
Great love in me for thee and Poesy.
Imagine not that greatest mastery
And kingdom over all the Realms of verse
Nears more to Heaven in aught than when we nurse
And surety give to love and Brotherhood.
Anthropophagi in Othello's mood;
Ulysses stormed, and his enchanted belt
Glow with the Muse, but they are never felt
Unbosom'd so and so eternal made,
Such tender incense in their Laurel shade,
To all the regent sisters of the Nine
As this poor offering to you, sister mine.
Kind sister! aye, this third name says you are;
Enchanted has it been the Lord knows where.
And may it taste to you like good old wine,
Take you to real happiness and give
Sons, daughters and a home like honied hive.



Mother of Hermes! and still youthful Maia!
        May I sing to thee
As thou wast hymned on the shores of Baiæ?
        Or may I woo thee
In earlier Sicilian? or thy smiles
Seek as they once were sought, in Grecian isles,
By bards who died content on pleasant sward,
    Leaving great verse unto a little clan?
O, give me their old vigour, and unheard
    Save of the quiet Primrose, and the span
        Of heaven and few ears,
Rounded by thee, my song should die away
        Content as theirs,
Rich in the simple worship of a day.



Dear Reynolds! as last night I lay in bed,
There came before my eyes that wonted thread
Of shapes, and shadows, and remembrances,
That every other minute vex and please:
Things all disjointed come from north and south,—
Two Witch's eyes above a Cherub's mouth,
Voltaire with casque and shield and habergeon,
And Alexander with his nightcap on;
Old Socrates a-tying his cravat,
And Hazlitt playing with Miss Edgeworth's cat;
And Junius Brutus, pretty well so so,
Making the best of's way towards Soho.
Few are there who escape these visitings,—
Perhaps one or two whose lives have patent wings,
And thro' whose curtains peeps no hellish nose,
No wild-boar tushes, and no Mermaid's toes;
But flowers bursting out with lusty pride,
And young Æolian harps personified;
Some Titian colours touch'd into real life,—
The sacrifice goes on; the pontiff knife
Gleams in the Sun, the milk-white heifer lows,
The pipes go shrilly, the libation flows:
A white sail shows above the green-head cliff,
Moves round the point, and throws her anchor stiff;
The mariners join hymn with those on land.
You know the Enchanted Castle,—it doth stand
Upon a rock, on the border of a Lake,
Nested in trees, which all do seem to shake
From some old magic-like Urganda's Sword.
O Phœbus! that I had thy sacred word
To show this Castle, in fair dreaming wise,
Unto my friend, while sick and ill he lies!
You know it well enough, where it doth seem
A mossy place, a Merlin's Hall, a dream;
You know the clear Lake, and the little Isles,
The mountains blue, and cold near neighbour rills,
All which elsewhere are but half animate;
There do they look alive to love and hate,
To smiles and frowns; they seem a lifted mound
Above some giant, pulsing underground.
Part of the Building was a chosen See,
Built by a banish'd Santon of Chaldee;
The other part, two thousand years from him,
Was built by Cuthbert de Saint Aldebrim;
Then there's a little wing, far from the Sun,
Built by a Lapland Witch turn'd maudlin Nun;
And many other juts of aged stone
Founded with many a mason-devil's groan.
The doors all look as if they op'd themselves,
The windows as if latch'd by Fays and Elves,
And from them comes a silver flash of light,
As from the westward of a Summer's night;
Or like a beauteous woman's large blue eyes
Gone mad thro' olden songs and poesies.
See! what is coming from the distance dim!
A golden Galley all in silken trim!
Three rows of oars are lightening, moment whiles,
Into the verd'rous bosoms of those isles;
Towards the shade, under the Castle wall,
It comes in silence,—now 'tis hidden all.
The Clarion sounds, and from a Postern-gate
An echo of sweet music doth create
A fear in the poor Herdsman, who doth bring
His beasts to trouble the enchanted spring,—
He tells of the sweet music, and the spot,
To all his friends, and they believe him not.
O that our dreamings all, of sleep or wake,
Would all their colours from the sunset take:
From something of material sublime,
Rather than shadow our own soul's day-time
In the dark void of night. For in the world
We jostle,—but my flag is not unfurl'd
On the Admiral-staff,—and so philosophize
I dare not yet! Oh, never will the prize,
High reason, and the love of good and ill,
Be my award! Things cannot to the will
Be settled, but they tease us out of thought;
Or is it that imagination brought
Beyond its proper bound, yet still confin'd,
Lost in a sort of Purgatory blind,
Cannot refer to any standard law
Of either earth or heaven? It is a flaw
In happiness, to see beyond our bourn,—
It forces us in summer skies to mourn,
It spoils the singing of the Nightingale.
Dear Reynolds! I have a mysterious tale,
And cannot speak it: the first page I read
Upon a Lampit rock of green sea-weed
Among the breakers; 'twas a quiet eve,
The rocks were silent, the wide sea did weave
An untumultuous fringe of silver foam
Along the flat brown sand; I was at home
And should have been most happy,—but I saw
Too far into the sea, where every maw
The greater on the less feeds evermore.—
But I saw too distinct into the core
Of an eternal fierce destruction,
And so from happiness I far was gone.
Still am I sick of it, and tho', to-day,
I've gather'd young spring-leaves, and flowers gay
Of periwinkle and wild strawberry,
Still do I that most fierce destruction see,—
The Shark at savage prey,—the Hawk at pounce,—
The gentle Robin, like a Pard or Ounce,
Ravening a worm,—Away, ye horrid moods!
Moods of one's mind! You know I hate them well.
You know I'd sooner be a clapping Bell
To some Kamtschatcan Missionary Church,
Than with these horrid moods be left i' the lurch.



Here all the summer could I stay,
    For there's Bishop's teign
    And King's teign
And Coomb at the clear teign head—
    Where close by the stream
    You may have your cream
All spread upon barley bread.
    There's arch Brook
    And there's larch Brook
Both turning many a mill;
    And cooling the drouth
    Of the salmon's mouth,
And fattening his silver gill.
    There is Wild wood,
    A Mild hood
To the sheep on the lea o' the down,
    Where the golden furze,
    With its green, thin spurs,
Doth catch at the maiden's gown.
    There is Newton marsh
    With its spear grass harsh—
A pleasant summer level
    Where the maidens sweet
    Of the Market Street,
Do meet in the dusk to revel.
    There's the Barton rich
    With dyke and ditch
And hedge for the thrush to live in
    And the hollow tree
    For the buzzing bee
And a bank for the wasp to hive in.
    And O, and O
    The daisies blow
And the primroses are waken'd,
    And violets white
    Sit in silver plight,
And the green bud's as long as the spike end.
    Then who would go
    Into dark Soho,
And chatter with dack'd hair'd critics,
    When he can stay
    For the new-mown hay,
And startle the dappled Prickets?



This living hand, now warm and capable
Of earnest grasping, would, if it were cold
And in the icy silence of the tomb,
So haunt thy days and chill thy dreaming nights
That thou would[st] wish thine own heart dry of blood
So in my veins red life might stream again,
And thou be conscience-calm'd—see here it is—
I hold it towards you.



What is more gentle than a wind in summer?
What is more soothing than the pretty hummer
That stays one moment in an open flower,
And buzzes cheerily from bower to bower?
What is more tranquil than a musk-rose blowing
In a green island, far from all men's knowing?
More healthful than the leafiness of dales?
More secret than a nest of nightingales?
More serene than Cordelia's countenance?
More full of visions than a high romance?
What, but thee Sleep? Soft closer of our eyes!
Low murmurer of tender lullabies!
Light hoverer around our happy pillows!
Wreather of poppy buds, and weeping willows!
Silent entangler of a beauty's tresses!
Most happy listener! when the morning blesses
Thee for enlivening all the cheerful eyes
That glance so brightly at the new sun-rise.
But what is higher beyond thought than thee?
Fresher than berries of a mountain tree?
More strange, more beautiful, more smooth, more regal,
Than wings of swans, than doves, than dim-seen eagle?
What is it? And to what shall I compare it?
It has a glory, and nought else can share it:
The thought thereof is awful, sweet, and holy,
Chacing away all worldliness and folly;
Coming sometimes like fearful claps of thunder,
Or the low rumblings earth's regions under;
And sometimes like a gentle whispering
Of all the secrets of some wond'rous thing
That breathes about us in the vacant air;
So that we look around with prying stare,
Perhaps to see shapes of light, aerial lymning,
And catch soft floatings from a faint-heard hymning;
To see the laurel wreath, on high suspended,
That is to crown our name when life is ended.
Sometimes it gives a glory to the voice,
And from the heart up-springs, rejoice! rejoice!
Sounds which will reach the Framer of all things,
And die away in ardent mutterings.
No one who once the glorious sun has seen,
And all the clouds, and felt his bosom clean
For his great Maker's presence, but must know
What 'tis I mean, and feel his being glow:
Therefore no insult will I give his spirit,
By telling what he sees from native merit.
O Poesy! for thee I hold my pen
That am not yet a glorious denizen
Of thy wide heaven—Should I rather kneel
Upon some mountain-top until I feel
A glowing splendour round about me hung,
And echo back the voice of thine own tongue?
O Poesy! for thee I grasp my pen
That am not yet a glorious denizen
Of thy wide heaven; yet, to my ardent prayer,
Yield from thy sanctuary some clear air,
Smoothed for intoxication by the breath
Of flowering bays, that I may die a death
Of luxury, and my young spirit follow
The morning sun-beams to the great Apollo
Like a fresh sacrifice; or, if I can bear
The o'erwhelming sweets, 'twill bring to me the fair
Visions of all places: a bowery nook
Will be elysium—an eternal book
Whence I may copy many a lovely saying
About the leaves, and flowers—about the playing
Of nymphs in woods, and fountains; and the shade
Keeping a silence round a sleeping maid;
And many a verse from so strange influence
That we must ever wonder how, and whence
It came. Also imaginings will hover
Round my fire-side, and haply there discover
Vistas of solemn beauty, where I'd wander
In happy silence, like the clear meander
Through its lone vales; and where I found a spot
Of awfuller shade, or an enchanted grot,
Or a green hill o'erspread with chequered dress
Of flowers, and fearful from its loveliness,
Write on my tablets all that was permitted,
All that was for our human senses fitted.
Then the events of this wide world I'd seize
Like a strong giant, and my spirit teaze
Till at its shoulders it should proudly see
Wings to find out an immortality.
Stop and consider! life is but a day;
A fragile dew-drop on its perilous way
From a tree's summit; a poor Indian's sleep
While his boat hastens to the monstrous steep
Of Montmorenci. Why so sad a moan?
Life is the rose's hope while yet unblown;
The reading of an ever-changing tale;
The light uplifting of a maiden's veil;
A pigeon tumbling in clear summer air;
A laughing school-boy, without grief or care,
Riding the springy branches of an elm.
O for ten years, that I may overwhelm
Myself in poesy; so I may do the deed
That my own soul has to itself decreed.
Then will I pass the countries that I see
In long perspective, and continually
Taste their pure fountains. First the realm I'll pass
Of Flora, and old Pan: sleep in the grass,
Feed upon apples red, and strawberries,
And choose each pleasure that my fancy sees;
Catch the white-handed nymphs in shady places,
To woo sweet kisses from averted faces,—
Play with their fingers, touch their shoulders white
Into a pretty shrinking with a bite
As hard as lips can make it: till agreed,
A lovely tale of human life we'll read.
And one will teach a tame dove how it best
May fan the cool air gently o'er my rest;
Another, bending o'er her nimble tread,
Will set a green robe floating round her head,
And still will dance with ever varied ease,
Smiling upon the flowers and the trees:
Another will entice me on, and on
Through almond blossoms and rich cinnamon;
Till in the bosom of a leafy world
We rest in silence, like two gems upcurl'd
In the recesses of a pearly shell.
And can I ever bid these joys farewell?
Yes, I must pass them for a nobler life,
Where I may find the agonies, the strife
Of human hearts: for lo! I see afar,
O'er sailing the blue cragginess, a car
And steeds with streamy manes—the charioteer
Looks out upon the winds with glorious fear:
And now the numerous tramplings quiver lightly
Along a huge cloud's ridge; and now with sprightly
Wheel downward come they into fresher skies,
Tipt round with silver from the sun's bright eyes.
Still downward with capacious whirl they glide;
And now I see them on a green-hill's side
In breezy rest among the nodding stalks.
The charioteer with wond'rous gesture talks
To the trees and mountains; and there soon appear
Shapes of delight, of mystery, and fear,
Passing along before a dusky space
Made by some mighty oaks: as they would chase
Some ever-fleeting music on they sweep.
Lo! how they murmur, laugh, and smile, and weep:
Some with upholden hand and mouth severe;
Some with their faces muffled to the ear
Between their arms; some, clear in youthful bloom,
Go glad and smilingly athwart the gloom;
Some looking back, and some with upward gaze;
Yes, thousands in a thousand different ways
Flit onward—now a lovely wreath of girls
Dancing their sleek hair into tangled curls;
And now broad wings. Most awfully intent
The driver of those steeds is forward bent,
And seems to listen: O that I might know
All that he writes with such a hurrying glow.
The visions all are fled—the car is fled
Into the light of heaven, and in their stead
A sense of real things comes doubly strong,
And, like a muddy stream, would bear along
My soul to nothingness: but I will strive
Against all doubtings, and will keep alive
The thought of that same chariot, and the strange
Journey it went.
Is there so small a range
In the present strength of manhood, that the high
Imagination cannot freely fly
As she was wont of old? prepare her steeds,
Paw up against the light, and do strange deeds
Upon the clouds? Has she not shewn us all?
From the clear space of ether, to the small
Breath of new buds unfolding? From the meaning
Of Jove's large eye-brow, to the tender greening
Of April meadows? Here her altar shone,
E'en in this isle; and who could paragon
The fervid choir that lifted up a noise
Of harmony, to where it aye will poise
Its mighty self of convoluting sound,
Huge as a planet, and like that roll round,
Eternally around a dizzy void?
Ay, in those days the Muses were nigh cloy'd
With honors; nor had any other care
Than to sing out and sooth their wavy hair.
Could all this be forgotten? Yes, a scism
Nurtured by foppery and barbarism,
Made great Apollo blush for this his land.
Men were thought wise who could not understand
His glories: with a puling infant's force
They sway'd about upon a rocking horse,
And thought it Pegasus. Ah dismal soul'd!
The winds of heaven blew, the ocean roll'd
Its gathering waves—ye felt it not. The blue
Bared its eternal bosom, and the dew
Of summer nights collected still to make
The morning precious: beauty was awake!
Why were ye not awake? But ye were dead
To things ye knew not of,—were closely wed
To musty laws lined out with wretched rule
And compass vile: so that ye taught a school
Of dolts to smooth, inlay, and clip, and fit,
Till, like the certain wands of Jacob's wit,
Their verses tallied. Easy was the task:
A thousand handicraftsmen wore the mask
Of Poesy. Ill-fated, impious race!
That blasphemed the bright Lyrist to his face,
And did not know it,—no, they went about,
Holding a poor, decrepid standard out
Mark'd with most flimsy mottos, and in large
The name of one Boileau!
O ye whose charge
It is to hover round our pleasant hills!
Whose congregated majesty so fills
My boundly reverence, that I cannot trace
Your hallowed names, in this unholy place,
So near those common folk; did not their shames
Affright you? Did our old lamenting Thames
Delight you? Did ye never cluster round
Delicious Avon, with a mournful sound,
And weep? Or did ye wholly bid adieu
To regions where no more the laurel grew?
Or did ye stay to give a welcoming
To some lone spirits who could proudly sing
Their youth away, and die? 'Twas even so:
But let me think away those times of woe:
Now 'tis a fairer season; ye have breathed
Rich benedictions o'er us; ye have wreathed
Fresh garlands: for sweet music has been heard
In many places;—some has been upstirr'd
From out its crystal dwelling in a lake,
By a swan's ebon bill; from a thick brake,
Nested and quiet in a valley mild,
Bubbles a pipe; fine sounds are floating wild
About the earth: happy are ye and glad.
These things are doubtless: yet in truth we've had
Strange thunders from the potency of song;
Mingled indeed with what is sweet and strong,
From majesty: but in clear truth the themes
Are ugly clubs, the Poets Polyphemes
Disturbing the grand sea. A drainless shower
Of light is poesy; 'tis the supreme of power;
'Tis might half slumb'ring on its own right arm.
The very archings of her eye-lids charm
A thousand willing agents to obey,
And still she governs with the mildest sway:
But strength alone though of the Muses born
Is like a fallen angel: trees uptorn,
Darkness, and worms, and shrouds, and sepulchres
Delight it; for it feeds upon the burrs,
And thorns of life; forgetting the great end
Of poesy, that it should be a friend
To sooth the cares, and lift the thoughts of man.
Yet I rejoice: a myrtle fairer than
E'er grew in Paphos, from the bitter weeds
Lifts its sweet head into the air, and feeds
A silent space with ever sprouting green.
All tenderest birds there find a pleasant screen,
Creep through the shade with jaunty fluttering,
Nibble the little cupped flowers and sing.
Then let us clear away the choaking thorns
From round its gentle stem; let the young fawns,
Yeaned in after times, when we are flown,
Find a fresh sward beneath it, overgrown
With simple flowers: let there nothing be
More boisterous than a lover's bended knee;
Nought more ungentle than the placid look
Of one who leans upon a closed book;
Nought more untranquil than the grassy slopes
Between two hills. All hail delightful hopes!
As she was wont, th'imagination
Into most lovely labyrinths will be gone,
And they shall be accounted poet kings
Who simply tell the most heart-easing things.
O may these joys be ripe before I die.
Will not some say that I presumptuously
Have spoken? that from hastening disgrace
'Twere better far to hide my foolish face?
That whining boyhood should with reverence bow
Ere the dread thunderbolt could reach? How!
If I do hide myself, it sure shall be
In the very fane, the light of Poesy:
If I do fall, at least I will be laid
Beneath the silence of a poplar shade;
And over me the grass shall be smooth shaven;
And there shall be a kind memorial graven.
But off Despondence! miserable bane!
They should not know thee, who athirst to gain
A noble end, are thirsty every hour.
What though I am not wealthy in the dower
Of spanning wisdom; though I do not know
The shiftings of the mighty winds that blow
Hither and thither all the changing thoughts
Of man: though no great minist'ring reason sorts
Out the dark mysteries of human souls
To clear conceiving: yet there ever rolls
A vast idea before me, and I glean
Therefrom my liberty; thence too I've seen
The end and aim of Poesy. 'Tis clear
As any thing most true; as that the year
Is made of the four seasons—manifest
As a large cross, some old cathedral's crest,
Lifted to the white clouds. Therefore should I
Be but the essence of deformity,
A coward, did my very eye-lids wink
At speaking out what I have dared to think.
Ah! rather let me like a madman run
Over some precipice; let the hot sun
Melt my Dedalian wings, and drive me down
Convuls'd and headlong! Stay! an inward frown
Of conscience bids me be more calm awhile.
An ocean dim, sprinkled with many an isle,
Spreads awfully before me. How much toil!
How many days! what desperate turmoil!
Ere I can have explored its widenesses.
Ah, what a task! upon my bended knees,
I could unsay those—no, impossible!
Impossible!
For sweet relief I'll dwell
On humbler thoughts, and let this strange assay
Begun in gentleness die so away.
E'en now all tumult from my bosom fades:
I turn full hearted to the friendly aids
That smooth the path of honour; brotherhood,
And friendliness the nurse of mutual good.
The hearty grasp that sends a pleasant sonnet
Into the brain ere one can think upon it;
The silence when some rhymes are coming out;
And when they're come, the very pleasant rout:
The message certain to be done to-morrow.
'Tis perhaps as well that it should be to borrow
Some precious book from out its snug retreat,
To cluster round it when we next shall meet.
Scarce can I scribble on; for lovely airs
Are fluttering round the room like doves in pairs;
Many delights of that glad day recalling,
When first my senses caught their tender falling.
And with these airs come forms of elegance
Stooping their shoulders o'er a horse's prance,
Careless, and grand—fingers soft and round
Parting luxuriant curls;—and the swift bound
Of Bacchus from his chariot, when his eye
Made Ariadne's cheek look blushingly.
Thus I remember all the pleasant flow
Of words at opening a portfolio.
Things such as these are ever harbingers
To trains of peaceful images: the stirs
Of a swan's neck unseen among the rushes:
A linnet starting all about the bushes:
A butterfly, with golden wings broad parted,
Nestling a rose, convuls'd as though it smarted
With over pleasure—many, many more,
Might I indulge at large in all my store
Of luxuries: yet I must not forget
Sleep, quiet with his poppy coronet:
For what there may be worthy in these rhymes
I partly owe to him: and thus, the chimes
Of friendly voices had just given place
To as sweet a silence, when I 'gan retrace
The pleasant day, upon a couch at ease.
It was a poet's house who keeps the keys
Of pleasure's temple. Round about were hung
The glorious features of the bards who sung
In other ages—cold and sacred busts
Smiled at each other. Happy he who trusts
To clear Futurity his darling fame!
Then there were fauns and satyrs taking aim
At swelling apples with a frisky leap
And reaching fingers, 'mid a luscious heap
Of vine leaves. Then there rose to view a fane
Of liny marble, and thereto a train
Of nymphs approaching fairly o'er the sward:
One, loveliest, holding her white hand toward
The dazzling sun-rise: two sisters sweet
Bending their graceful figures till they meet
Over the trippings of a little child:
And some are hearing, eagerly, the wild
Thrilling liquidity of dewy piping.
See, in another picture, nymphs are wiping
Cherishingly Diana's timorous limbs;—
A fold of lawny mantle dabbling swims
At the bath's edge, and keeps a gentle motion
With the subsiding crystal: as when ocean
Heaves calmly its broad swelling smoothiness o'er
Its rocky marge, and balances once more
The patient weeds; that now unshent by foam
Feel all about their undulating home.
Sappho's meek head was there half smiling down
At nothing; just as though the earnest frown
Of over thinking had that moment gone
From off her brow, and left her all alone.
Great Alfred's too, with anxious, pitying eyes,
As if he always listened to the sighs
Of the goaded world; and Kosciusko's worn
By horrid suffrance—mightily forlorn.
Petrarch, outstepping from the shady green,
Starts at the sight of Laura; nor can wean
His eyes from her sweet face. Most happy they!
For over them was seen a free display
Of out-spread wings, and from between them shone
The face of Poesy: from off her throne
She overlook'd things that I scarce could tell.
The very sense of where I was might well
Keep Sleep aloof: but more than that there came
Thought after thought to nourish up the flame
Within my breast; so that the morning light
Surprised me even from a sleepless night;
And up I rose refresh'd, and glad, and gay,
Resolving to begin that very day
These lines; and howsoever they be done,
I leave them as a father does his son.



    In midmost Ind, beside Hydaspes cool,
    There stood, or hover'd, tremulous in the air,
    A faery city, 'neath the potent rule
    Of Emperor Elfinan; fam'd ev'rywhere
    For love of mortal women, maidens fair,
    Whose lips were solid, whose soft hands were made
    Of a fit mould and beauty, ripe and rare,
    To pamper his slight wooing, warm yet staid:
He lov'd girls smooth as shades, but hated a mere shade.
    This was a crime forbidden by the law;
    And all the priesthood of his city wept,
    For ruin and dismay they well foresaw,
    If impious prince no bound or limit kept,
    And faery Zendervester overstept;
    They wept, he sin'd, and still he would sin on,
    They dreamt of sin, and he sin'd while they slept;
    In vain the pulpit thunder'd at the throne,
Caricature was vain, and vain the tart lampoon.
    Which seeing, his high court of parliament
    Laid a remonstrance at his Highness' feet,
    Praying his royal senses to content
    Themselves with what in faery land was sweet,
    Befitting best that shade with shade should meet:
    Whereat, to calm their fears, he promis'd soon
    From mortal tempters all to make retreat,—
    Aye, even on the first of the new moon,
An immaterial wife to espouse as heaven's boon.
    Meantime he sent a fluttering embassy
    To Pigmio, of Imaus sovereign,
    To half beg, and half demand, respectfully,
    The hand of his fair daughter Bellanaine;
    An audience had, and speeching done, they gain
    Their point, and bring the weeping bride away;
    Whom, with but one attendant, safely lain
    Upon their wings, they bore in bright array,
While little harps were touch'd by many a lyric fay.
    As in old pictures tender cherubim
    A child's soul thro' the sapphir'd canvas bear,
    So, thro' a real heaven, on they swim
    With the sweet princess on her plumag'd lair,
    Speed giving to the winds her lustrous hair;
    And so she journey'd, sleeping or awake,
    Save when, for healthful exercise and air,
    She chose to promener à l'aile, or take
A pigeon's somerset, for sport or change's sake.
    “Dear Princess, do not whisper me so loud,”
    Quoth Corallina, nurse and confidant,
    “Do not you see there, lurking in a cloud,
    Close at your back, that sly old Crafticant?
    He hears a whisper plainer than a rant:
    Dry up your tears, and do not look so blue;
    He's Elfinan's great state-spy militant,
    His running, lying, flying foot-man too,—
Dear mistress, let him have no handle against you!
    “Show him a mouse's tail, and he will guess,
    With metaphysic swiftness, at the mouse;
    Show him a garden, and with speed no less,
    He'll surmise sagely of a dwelling house,
    And plot, in the same minute, how to chouse
    The owner out of it; show him a”—“Peace!
    Peace! nor contrive thy mistress' ire to rouse!”
    Return'd the Princess, “my tongue shall not cease
Till from this hated match I get a free release.
    “Ah, beauteous mortal!” “Hush!” quoth Coralline,
    “Really you must not talk of him, indeed.”
    “You hush!” replied the mistress, with a shine
    Of anger in her eyes, enough to breed
    In stouter hearts than nurse's fear and dread:
    'Twas not the glance itself made nursey flinch,
    But of its threat she took the utmost heed;
    Not liking in her heart an hour-long pinch,
Or a sharp needle run into her back an inch.
    So she was silenc'd, and fair Bellanaine,
    Writhing her little body with ennui,
    Continued to lament and to complain,
    That Fate, cross-purposing, should let her be
    Ravish'd away far from her dear countree;
    That all her feelings should be set at naught,
    In trumping up this match so hastily,
    With lowland blood; and lowland blood she thought
Poison, as every staunch true-born Imaian ought.
    Sorely she griev'd, and wetted three or four
    White Provence rose-leaves with her faery tears,
    But not for this cause;—alas! she had more
    Bad reasons for her sorrow, as appears
    In the fam'd memoirs of a thousand years,
    Written by Crafticant, and published
    By Parpaglion and Co., (those sly compeers
    Who rak'd up ev'ry fact against the dead,)
In Scarab Street, Panthea, at the Jubal's Head.
    Where, after a long hypercritic howl
    Against the vicious manners of the age
    He goes on to expose, with heart and soul,
    What vice in this or that year was the rage,
    Backbiting all the world in every page;
    With special strictures on the horrid crime,
    (Section'd and subsection'd with learning sage,)
    Of faeries stooping on their wings sublime
To kiss a mortal's lips, when such were in their prime.
    Turn to the copious index, you will find
    Somewhere in the column, headed letter B,
    The name of Bellanaine, if you're not blind;
    Then pray refer to the text, and you will see
    An article made up of calumny
    Against this highland princess, rating her
    For giving way, so over fashionably,
    To this new-fangled vice, which seems a burr
Stuck in his moral throat, no coughing e'er could stir.
    There he says plainly that she lov'd a man!
    That she around him flutter'd, flirted, toy'd,
    Before her marriage with great Elfinan;
    That after marriage too, she never joy'd
    In husband's company, but still employ'd
    Her wits to 'scape away to Angle-land;
    Where liv'd the youth, who worried and annoy'd
    Her tender heart, and its warm ardours fann'd
To such a dreadful blaze, her side would scorch her hand.
    But let us leave this idle tittle-tattle
    To waiting-maids, and bed-room coteries,
    Nor till fit time against her fame wage battle.
    Poor Elfinan is very ill at ease,
    Let us resume his subject if you please:
    For it may comfort and console him much
    To rhyme and syllable his miseries;
    Poor Elfinan! whose cruel fate was such,
He sat and curs'd a bride he knew he could not touch.
    Soon as (according to his promises)
    The bridal embassy had taken wing,
    And vanish'd, bird-like, o'er the suburb trees,
    The Emperor, empierc'd with the sharp sting
    Of love, retired, vex'd and murmuring
    Like any drone shut from the fair bee-queen,
    Into his cabinet, and there did fling
    His limbs upon a sofa, full of spleen,
And damn'd his House of Commons, in complete chagrin.
    “I'll trounce some of the members,” cried the Prince,
    “I'll put a mark against some rebel names,
    I'll make the Opposition-benches wince,
    I'll show them very soon, to all their shames,
    What 'tis to smother up a Prince's flames;
    That ministers should join in it, I own,
    Surprises me!—they too at these high games!
    Am I an Emperor? Do I wear a crown?
Imperial Elfinan, go hang thyself or drown!
    “I'll trounce 'em!—there's the square-cut chancellor,
    His son shall never touch that bishopric;
    And for the nephew of old Palfior,
    I'll show him that his speech has made me sick,
    And give the colonelcy to Phalaric;
    The tiptoe marquis, moral and gallant,
    Shall lodge in shabby taverns upon tick;
    And for the Speaker's second cousin's aunt,
She sha'n't be maid of honour,—by heaven that she sha'n't!
    “I'll shirk the Duke of A.; I'll cut his brother;
    I'll give no garter to his eldest son;
    I won't speak to his sister or his mother!
    The Viscount B. shall live at cut-and-run;
    But how in the world can I contrive to stun
    That fellow's voice, which plagues me worse than any
    That stubborn fool, that impudent state-dun,
    Who sets down ev'ry sovereign as a zany,—
That vulgar commoner, Esquire Biancopany?
    “Monstrous affair! Pshaw! pah! what ugly minx
    Will they fetch from Imaus for my bride?
    Alas! my wearied heart within me sinks,
    To think that I must be so near allied
    To a cold dullard fay,—ah, woe betide!
    Ah, fairest of all human loveliness!
    Sweet Bertha! what crime can it be to glide
    About the fragrant pleatings of thy dress,
Or kiss thine eyes, or count thy locks, tress after tress?”
    So said, one minute's while his eyes remain'd
    Half lidded, piteous, languid, innocent;
    But, in a wink, their splendour they regain'd,
    Sparkling revenge with amorous fury blent.
    Love thwarted in bad temper oft has vent:
    He rose, he stampt his foot, he rang the bell,
    And order'd some death-warrants to be sent
    For signature:—somewhere the tempest fell,
As many a poor felon does not live to tell.
    “At the same time Eban,”—(this was his page,
    A fay of colour, slave from top to toe,
    Sent as a present, while yet under age,
    From the Viceroy of Zanguebar,—wise, slow,
    His speech, his only words were “yes” and “no,”
    But swift of look, and foot, and wing was he,—)
    “At the same time, Eban, this instant go
    To Hum the soothsayer, whose name I see
Among the fresh arrivals in our empery.
    “Bring Hum to me! But stay—here, take my ring,
    The pledge of favour, that he not suspect
    Any foul play, or awkward murdering,
    Tho' I have bowstrung many of his sect;
    Throw in a hint, that if he should neglect
    One hour, the next shall see him in my grasp,
    And the next after that shall see him neck'd,
    Or swallow'd by my hunger-starved asp,—
And mention ('tis as well) the torture of the wasp.”
    These orders given, the Prince, in half a pet,
    Let o'er the silk his propping elbow slide,
    Caught up his little legs, and, in a fret,
    Fell on the sofa on his royal side.
    The slave retreated backwards, humble-eyed,
    And with a slave-like silence clos'd the door,
    And to old Hum thro' street and alley hied;
    He “knew the city,” as we say, of yore,
And for short cuts and turns, was nobody knew more.
    It was the time when wholesale houses close
    Their shutters with a moody sense of wealth,
    But retail dealers, diligent, let loose
    The gas (objected to on score of health),
    Convey'd in little solder'd pipes by stealth,
    And make it flare in many a brilliant form,
    That all the powers of darkness it repell'th,
    Which to the oil-trade doth great scaith and harm,
And supersedeth quite the use of the glow-worm.
    Eban, untempted by the pastry-cooks,
    (Of pastry he got store within the palace,)
    With hasty steps, wrapp'd cloak, and solemn looks,
    Incognito upon his errand sallies,
    His smelling-bottle ready for the allies;
    He pass'd the Hurdy-gurdies with disdain,
    Vowing he'd have them sent aboard the gallies;
    Just as he made his vow, it 'gan to rain,
Therefore he call'd a coach, and bade it drive amain.
    “I'll pull the string,” said he, and further said,
    “Polluted Jarvey! Ah, thou filthy hack!
    Whose springs of life are all dried up and dead,
    Whose linsey-woolsey lining hangs all slack,
    Whose rug is straw, whose wholeness is a crack;
    And evermore thy steps go clatter-clitter;
    Whose glass once up can never be got back,
    Who prov'st, with jolting arguments and bitter,
That 'tis of modern use to travel in a litter.
    “Thou inconvenience! thou hungry crop
    For all corn! thou snail-creeper to and fro,
    Who while thou goest ever seem'st to stop,
    And fiddle-faddle standest while you go;
    I' the morning, freighted with a weight of woe,
    Unto some lazar-house thou journeyest,
    And in the evening tak'st a double row
    Of dowdies, for some dance or party drest,
Besides the goods meanwhile thou movest east and west.
    “By thy ungallant bearing and sad mien,
    An inch appears the utmost thou couldst budge;
    Yet at the slightest nod, or hint, or sign,
    Round to the curb-stone patient dost thou trudge,
    School'd in a beckon, learned in a nudge,
    A dull-eyed Argus watching for a fare;
    Quiet and plodding, thou dost bear no grudge
    To whisking Tilburies, or Phaetons rare,
Curricles, or Mail-coaches, swift beyond compare.”
    Philosophizing thus, he pull'd the check,
    And bade the Coachman wheel to such a street,
    Who, turning much his body, more his neck,
    Louted full low, and hoarsely did him greet:
    “Certes, Monsieur were best take to his feet,
    Seeing his servant can no further drive
    For press of coaches, that to-night here meet
    Many as bees about a straw-capp'd hive,
When first for April honey into faint flowers they dive.”
    Eban then paid his fare, and tiptoe went
    To Hum's hotel; and, as he on did pass
    With head inclin'd, each dusky lineament
    Show'd in the pearl-pav'd street, as in a glass;
    His purple vest, that ever peeping was
    Rich from the fluttering crimson of his cloak,
    His silvery trowsers, and his silken sash
    Tied in a burnish'd knot, their semblance took
Upon the mirror'd walls, wherever he might look.
    He smil'd at self, and, smiling, show'd his teeth,
    And seeing his white teeth, he smil'd the more;
    Lifted his eye-brows, spurn'd the path beneath,
    Show'd teeth again, and smil'd as heretofore,
    Until he knock'd at the magician's door;
    Where, till the porter answer'd, might be seen,
    In the clear panel more he could adore,—
    His turban wreath'd of gold, and white, and green,
Mustachios, ear-ring, nose-ring, and his sabre keen.
    “Does not your master give a rout to-night?”
    Quoth the dark page. “Oh, no!” return'd the Swiss,
    “Next door but one to us, upon the right,
    The Magazin des Modes now open is
    Against the Emperor's wedding;—and, sir, this
    My master finds a monstrous horrid bore;
    As he retir'd, an hour ago I wis,
    With his best beard and brimstone, to explore
And cast a quiet figure in his second floor.
    “Gad! he's oblig'd to stick to business!
    For chalk, I hear, stands at a pretty price;
    And as for aqua vitæ—there's a mess!
    The dentes sapientiæ of mice,
    Our barber tells me too, are on the rise,—
    Tinder's a lighter article,—nitre pure
    Goes off like lightning,—grains of Paradise
    At an enormous figure!—stars not sure!—
Zodiac will not move without a sly douceur!
    “Venus won't stir a peg without a fee,
    And master is too partial, entre nous,
    To”—“Hush—hush!” cried Eban, “sure that is he
    Coming down stairs,—by St. Bartholomew!
    As backwards as he can,—is't something new?
    Or is't his custom, in the name of fun?”
    “He always comes down backward, with one shoe”—
    Return'd the porter—“off, and one shoe on,
Like, saving shoe for sock or stocking, my man John!”
    It was indeed the great Magician,
    Feeling, with careful toe, for every stair,
    And retrograding careful as he can,
    Backwards and downwards from his own two pair:
    “Salpietro!” exclaim'd Hum, “is the dog there?
    He's always in my way upon the mat!”
    “He's in the kitchen, or the Lord knows where,”—
    Replied the Swiss,—“the nasty, yelping brat!”
“Don't beat him!” return'd Hum, and on the floor came pat.
    Then facing right about, he saw the Page,
    And said: “Don't tell me what you want, Eban;
    The Emperor is now in a huge rage,—
    'Tis nine to one he'll give you the rattan!
    Let us away!” Away together ran
    The plain-dress'd sage and spangled blackamoor,
    Nor rested till they stood to cool, and fan,
    And breathe themselves at the Emperor's chamber door,
When Eban thought he heard a soft imperial snore.
    “I thought you guess'd, foretold, or prophesied,
    That's Majesty was in a raving fit?”
    “He dreams,” said Hum, “or I have ever lied,
    That he is tearing you, sir, bit by bit.”
    “He's not asleep, and you have little wit,”
    Replied the page: “that little buzzing noise,
    Whate'er your palmistry may make of it,
    Comes from a play-thing of the Emperor's choice,
From a Man-Tiger-Organ, prettiest of his toys.”
    Eban then usher'd in the learned Seer:
    Elfinan's back was turn'd, but, ne'ertheless,
    Both, prostrate on the carpet, ear by ear,
    Crept silently, and waited in distress,
    Knowing the Emperor's moody bitterness;
    Eban especially, who on the floor 'gan
    Tremble and quake to death,—he feared less
    A dose of senna-tea or nightmare Gorgon
Than the Emperor when he play'd on his Man-Tiger-Organ.
    They kiss'd nine times the carpet's velvet face
    Of glossy silk, soft, smooth, and meadow-green,
    Where the close eye in deep rich fur might trace
    A silver tissue, scantly to be seen,
    As daisies lurk'd in June-grass, buds in treen;
    Sudden the music ceased, sudden the hand
    Of majesty, by dint of passion keen,
    Doubled into a common fist, went grand,
And knock'd down three cut glasses, and his best ink-stand.
    Then turning round, he saw those trembling two:
    “Eban,” said he, “as slaves should taste the fruits
    Of diligence, I shall remember you
    To-morrow, or the next day, as time suits,
    In a finger conversation with my mutes,—
    Begone!—for you, Chaldean! here remain!
    Fear not, quake not, and as good wine recruits
    A conjurer's spirits, what cup will you drain?
Sherry in silver, hock in gold, or glass'd champagne?”
    “Commander of the Faithful!” answer'd Hum,
    “In preference to these, I'll merely taste
    A thimble-full of old Jamaica rum.”
    “A simple boon!” said Elfinan; “thou may'st
    Have Nantz, with which my morning-coffee's lac'd.”
    “I'll have a glass of Nantz, then,”—said the Seer,—
    “Made racy—(sure my boldness is misplac'd!)—
    With the third part—(yet that is drinking dear!)—
Of the least drop of crème de citron, crystal clear.”
    “I pledge you, Hum! and pledge my dearest love,
    My Bertha!” “Bertha! Bertha!” cried the sage,
    “I know a many Berthas!” “Mine's above
    All Berthas!” sighed the Emperor. “I engage,”
    Said Hum, “in duty, and in vassalage,
    To mention all the Berthas in the Earth;—
    There's Bertha Watson,—and Miss Bertha Page,—
    This fam'd for languid eyes, and that for mirth,—
There's Bertha Blount of York,—and Bertha Knox of Perth.”
    “You seem to know”—“I do know,” answer'd Hum,
    “Your Majesty's in love with some fine girl
    Named Bertha; but her surname will not come,
    Without a little conjuring.” “'Tis Pearl,
    'Tis Bertha Pearl that makes my brains so whirl;
    And she is softer, fairer than her name!”
    “Where does she live?” ask'd Hum. “Her fair locks curl
    So brightly, they put all our fays to shame!—
Live?—O! at Canterbury, with her old grand-dame.”
    “Good! good!” cried Hum, “I've known her from a child!
    She is a changeling of my management;
    She was born at midnight in an Indian wild;
    Her mother's screams with the striped tiger's blent,
    While the torch-bearing slaves a halloo sent
    Into the jungles; and her palanquin,
    Rested amid the desert's dreariment,
    Shook with her agony, till fair were seen
The little Bertha's eyes oped on the stars serene.”
    “I can't say,” said the monarch; “that may be
    Just as it happen'd, true or else a bam!
    Drink up your brandy, and sit down by me,
    Feel, feel my pulse, how much in love I am;
    And if your science is not all a sham,
    Tell me some means to get the lady here.”
    “Upon my honour!” said the son of Cham,
    “She is my dainty changeling, near and dear,
Although her story sounds at first a little queer.”
    “Convey her to me, Hum, or by my crown,
    My sceptre, and my cross-surmounted globe,
    I'll knock you”—“Does your majesty mean—down?
    No, no, you never could my feelings probe
    To such a depth!” The Emperor took his robe,
    And wept upon its purple palatine,
    While Hum continued, shamming half a sob,—
    “In Canterbury doth your lady shine?
But let me cool your brandy with a little wine.”
    Whereat a narrow Flemish glass he took,
    That once belong'd to Admiral de Witt,
    Admir'd it with a connoisseuring look,
    And with the ripest claret crowned it,
    And, ere one lively bead could burst and flit,
    He turn'd it quickly, nimbly upside down,
    His mouth being held conveniently fit
    To catch the treasure: “Best in all the town!”
He said, smack'd his moist lips, and gave a pleasant frown.
    “Ah! good my Prince, weep not!” And then again
    He fill'd a bumper. “Great Sire, do not weep!
    Your pulse is shocking, but I'll ease your pain.”
    “Fetch me that Ottoman, and prithee keep
    Your voice low,” said the Emperor; “and steep
    Some lady's-fingers nice in Candy wine;
    And prithee, Hum, behind the screen do peep
    For the rose-water vase, magician mine!
And sponge my forehead,—so my love doth make me pine.
    “Ah, cursed Bellanaine!” “Don't think of her,”
    Rejoin'd the Mago, “but on Bertha muse;
    For, by my choicest best barometer,
    You shall not throttled be in marriage noose;
    I've said it, Sire; you only have to choose
    Bertha or Bellanaine.” So saying, he drew
    From the left pocket of his threadbare hose,
    A sampler hoarded slyly, good as new,
Holding it by his thumb and finger full in view.
    “Sire, this is Bertha Pearl's neat handy-work,
    Her name, see here, Midsummer, ninety-one.”
    Elfinan snatch'd it with a sudden jerk,
    And wept as if he never would have done,
    Honouring with royal tears the poor homespun;
    Whereon were broider'd tigers with black eyes,
    And long-tail'd pheasants, and a rising sun,
    Plenty of posies, great stags, butterflies
Bigger than stags,—a moon,—with other mysteries.
    The monarch handled o'er and o'er again
    These day-school hieroglyphics with a sigh;
    Somewhat in sadness, but pleas'd in the main,
    Till this oracular couplet met his eye
    Astounded—Cupid I, do thee defy! 
    It was too much. He shrunk back in his chair,
    Grew pale as death, and fainted—very nigh!
    “Pho! nonsense!” exclaim'd Hum, “now don't despair;
She does not mean it really. Cheer up hearty there!
    “And listen to my words. You say you won't,
    On any terms, marry Miss Bellanaine;
    It goes against your conscience—good! Well, don't.
    You say you love a mortal. I would fain
    Persuade your honour's highness to refrain
    From peccadilloes. But, Sire, as I say,
    What good would that do? And, to be more plain,
    You would do me a mischief some odd day,
Cut off my ears and hands, or head too, by my fay!
    “Besides, manners forbid that I should pass any
    Vile strictures on the conduct of a prince
    Who should indulge his genius, if he has any,
    Not, like a subject, foolish matters mince.
    Now I think on't, perhaps I could convince
    Your Majesty there is no crime at all
    In loving pretty little Bertha, since
    She's very delicate,—not over tall,—
A fairy's hand, and in the waist, why—very small.”
    “Ring the repeater, gentle Hum!” “'Tis five,”
    Said gentle Hum; “the nights draw in apace;
    The little birds I hear are all alive;
    I see the dawning touch'd upon your face;
    Shall I put out the candles, please your Grace?”
    “Do put them out, and, without more ado,
    Tell me how I may that sweet girl embrace,—
    How you can bring her to me.” “That's for you,
Great Emperor! to adventure, like a lover true.”
    “I fetch her!”—“Yes, an 't like your Majesty;
    And as she would be frighten'd wide awake
    To travel such a distance through the sky,
    Use of some soft manœuvre you must make,
    For your convenience, and her dear nerves' sake;
    Nice way would be to bring her in a swoon,
    Anon, I'll tell what course were best to take;
    You must away this morning.” “Hum! so soon?”
“Sire, you must be in Kent by twelve o'clock at noon.”
    At this great Cæsar started on his feet,
    Lifted his wings, and stood attentive-wise.
    “Those wings to Canterbury you must beat,
    If you hold Bertha as a worthy prize.
    Look in the Almanack—Moore never lies—
    April the twenty-fourth,—this coming day,
    Now breathing its new bloom upon the skies,
    Will end in St. Mark's Eve;—you must away,
For on that eve alone can you the maid convey.”
    Then the magician solemnly 'gan frown,
    So that his frost-white eyebrows, beetling low,
    Shaded his deep-green eyes, and wrinkles brown
    Plaited upon his furnace-scorched brow:
    Forth from the hood that hung his neck below,
    He lifted a bright casket of pure gold,
    Touch'd a spring-lock, and there in wool, or snow
    Charm'd into ever-freezing, lay an old
And legend-leaved book, mysterious to behold.
    “Take this same book,—it will not bite you, Sire;
    There, put it underneath your royal arm;
    Though it's a pretty weight it will not tire,
    But rather on your journey keep you warm:
    This is the magic, this the potent charm,
    That shall drive Bertha to a fainting fit!
    When the time comes, don't feel the least alarm,
    Uplift her from the ground, and swiftly flit
Back to your palace, where I wait for guerdon fit.”
    “What shall I do with this same book?” “Why merely
    Lay it on Bertha's table, close beside
    Her work-box, and 'twill help your purpose dearly;
    I say no more.” “Or good or ill betide,
    Through the wide air to Kent this morn I glide!”
    Exclaim'd the Emperor. “When I return,
    Ask what you will,—I'll give you my new bride!
    And take some more wine, Hum;—O Heavens! I burn
To be upon the wing! Now, now, that minx I spurn!”
    “Leave her to me,” rejoin'd the magian:
    “But how shall I account, illustrious fay!
    For thine imperial absence? Pho! I can
    Say you are very sick, and bar the way
    To your so loving courtiers for one day;
    If either of their two archbishops' graces
    Should talk of extreme unction, I shall say
    You do not like cold pig with Latin phrases,
Which never should be used but in alarming cases.”
    “Open the window, Hum; I'm ready now!”
    “Zooks!” exclaim'd Hum, as up the sash he drew,
    “Behold, your Majesty, upon the brow
    Of yonder hill, what crowds of people!” “Whew!
    The monster's always after something new,”
    Return'd his Highness, “they are piping hot
    To see my pigsny Bellanaine. Hum! do
    Tighten my belt a little,—so, so,—not
Too tight,—the book!—my wand!—so, nothing is forgot.”
    “Wounds! how they shout!” said Hum, “and there,—see, see!
    The Ambassadors return'd from Pigmio!
    The morning's very fine,—uncommonly!
    See, past the skirts of yon white cloud they go,
    Tinging it with soft crimsons! Now below
    The sable-pointed heads of firs and pines
    They dip, move on, and with them moves a glow
    Along the forest side! Now amber lines
Reach the hill top, and now throughout the valley shines.”
    “Why, Hum, you're getting quite poetical!
    Those nows you managed in a special style.”
    “If ever you have leisure, Sire, you shall
    See scraps of mine will make it worth your while,
    Tit-bits for Phœbus!—yes, you well may smile.
    Hark! Hah! the bells!” “A little further yet,
    Good Hum, and let me view this mighty coil.”
    Then the great Emperor full graceful set
His elbow for a prop, and snuff'd his mignonnette.
    The morn is full of holiday; loud bells
    With rival clamours ring from every spire;
    Cunningly-station'd music dies and swells
    In echoing places; when the winds respire,
    Light flags stream out like gauzy tongues of fire;
    A metropolitan murmur, lifeful, warm,
    Comes from the northern suburbs; rich attire
    Freckles with red and gold the moving swarm;
While here and there clear trumpets blow a keen alarm.
    And now the fairy escort was seen clear,
    Like the old pageant of Aurora's train,
    Above a pearl-built minster, hovering near;
    First wily Crafticant, the chamberlain,
    Balanc'd upon his grey-grown pinions twain,
    His slender wand officially reveal'd;
    Then black gnomes scattering sixpences like rain;
    Then pages three and three; and next, slave-held,
The Imaian 'scutcheon bright,—one mouse in argent field.
    Gentlemen pensioners next; and after them,
    A troop of winged Janizaries flew;
    Then Slaves, as presents bearing many a gem;
    Then twelve physicians fluttering two and two;
    And next a chaplain in a cassock new;
    Then Lords in waiting; then (what head not reels
    For pleasure?)—the fair Princess in full view,
    Borne upon wings,—and very pleas'd she feels
To have such splendour dance attendance at her heels.
    For there was more magnificence behind:
    She wav'd her handkerchief. “Ah, very grand!”
    Cried Elfinan, and clos'd the window-blind;
    “And, Hum, we must not shilly-shally stand,—
    Adieu! adieu! I'm off for Angle-land!
    I say, old Hocus, have you such a thing
    About you,—feel your pockets, I command,—
    I want, this instant, an invisible ring,—
Thank you, old mummy!—now securely I take wing.”
    Then Elfinan swift vaulted from the floor,
    And lighted graceful on the window-sill;
    Under one arm the magic book he bore,
    The other he could wave about at will;
    Pale was his face, he still look'd very ill:
    He bow'd at Bellanaine, and said—“Poor Bell!
    Farewell! farewell! and if for ever! still
    For ever fare thee well!”—and then he fell
A laughing!—snapp'd his fingers!—shame it is to tell!
    “By'r Lady! he is gone!” cries Hum, “and I—
    (I own it)—have made too free with his wine;
    Old Crafticant will smoke me. By the bye—
    This room is full of jewels as a mine,—
    Dear valuable creatures, how ye shine!
    Sometime to-day I must contrive a minute,
    If Mercury propitiously incline,
    To examine his scrutoire, and see what's in it,
For of superfluous diamonds I as well may thin it.
    “The Emperor's horrid bad; yes, that's my cue!”
    Some histories say that this was Hum's last speech;
    That, being fuddled, he went reeling through
    The corridor, and scarce upright could reach
    The stair-head; that being glutted as a leech,
    And us'd, as we ourselves have just now said,
    To manage stairs reversely, like a peach
    Too ripe, he fell, being puzzled in his head
With liquor and the staircase: verdict—found stone dead.
    This as a falsehood Crafticanto treats;
    And as his style is of strange elegance,
    Gentle and tender, full of soft conceits,
    (Much like our Boswell's,) we will take a glance
    At his sweet prose, and, if we can, make dance
    His woven periods into careless rhyme;
    O, little faery Pegasus! rear—prance—
    Trot round the quarto—ordinary time!
March, little Pegasus, with pawing hoof sublime!
    Well, let us see,—tenth book and chapter nine,—
    Thus Crafticant pursues his diary:—
    “'Twas twelve o'clock at night, the weather fine,
    Latitude thirty-six; our scouts descry
    A flight of starlings making rapidly
    Towards Thibet. Mem.:—birds fly in the night;
    From twelve to half-past—wings not fit to fly
    For a thick fog—the Princess sulky quite
Call'd for an extra shawl, and gave her nurse a bite.
    “Five minutes before one—brought down a moth
    With my new double-barrel—stew'd the thighs
    And made a very tolerable broth—
    Princess turn'd dainty;—to our great surprise,
    Alter'd her mind, and thought it very nice:
    Seeing her pleasant, tried her with a pun,
    She frown'd; a monstrous owl across us flies
    About this time,—a sad old figure of fun;
Bad omen—this new match can't be a happy one.
    “From two till half-past, dusky way we made,
    Above the plains of Gobi,—desert, bleak;
    Beheld afar off, in the hooded shade
    Of darkness, a great mountain (strange to speak),
    Spitting, from forth its sulphur-baken peak,
    A fan-shap'd burst of blood-red, arrowy fire,
    Turban'd with smoke, which still away did reek,
    Solid and black from that eternal pyre,
Upon the laden wind that scantly could respire.
    “Just upon three o'clock a falling star
    Created an alarm among our troop,
    Kill'd a man-cook, a page, and broke a jar,
    A tureen, and three dishes, at one swoop,
    Then passing by the Princess, singed her hoop:
    Could not conceive what Coralline was at,
    She clapp'd her hands three times and cried out ‘Whoop!’
    Some strange Imaian custom. A large bat
Came sudden 'fore my face, and brush'd against my hat.
    “Five minutes thirteen seconds after three,
    Far in the west a mighty fire broke out,
    Conjectur'd, on the instant, it might be
    The city of Balk—'twas Balk beyond all doubt:
    A Griffin, wheeling here and there about,
    Kept reconnoitring us—doubled our guard—
    Lighted our torches, and kept up a shout,
    Till he sheer'd off—the Princess very scar'd—
And many on their marrow-bones for death prepar'd.
    “At half-past three arose the cheerful moon—
    Bivouack'd for four minutes on a cloud—
    Where from the earth we heard a lively tune
    Of tambourines and pipes, serene and loud,
    While on a flowery lawn a brilliant crowd
    Cinque-parted danc'd, some half asleep reposed
    Beneath the green-fan'd cedars, some did shroud
    In silken tents, and 'mid light fragrance dozed,
Or on the open turf their soothed eyelids closed.
    “Dropp'd my gold watch, and kill'd a kettledrum—
    It went for apoplexy—foolish folks!—
    Left it to pay the piper—a good sum—
    (I've got a conscience, maugre people's jokes;)
    To scrape a little favour 'gan to coax
    Her Highness' pug-dog—got a sharp rebuff—
    She wish'd a game at whist—made three revokes—
    Turn'd from myself, her partner, in a huff;
His majesty will know her temper time enough.
    “She cried for chess—I play'd a game with her—
    Castled her king with such a vixen look,
    It bodes ill to his Majesty—(refer
    To the second chapter of my fortieth book,
    And see what hoity-toity airs she took).
    At half-past four the morn essay'd to beam—
    Saluted, as we pass'd, an early rook—
    The Princess fell asleep, and, in her dream,
Talk'd of one Master Hubert, deep in her esteem.
    “About this time,—making delightful way,—
    Shed a quill-feather from my larboard wing—
    Wish'd, trusted, hop'd 'twas no sign of decay—
    Thank heaven, I'm hearty yet!—'twas no such thing:—
    At five the golden light began to spring,
    With fiery shudder through the bloomed east;
    At six we heard Panthea's churches ring—
    The city all her unhiv'd swarms had cast,
To watch our grand approach, and hail us as we pass'd.
    “As flowers turn their faces to the sun,
    So on our flight with hungry eyes they gaze,
    And, as we shap'd our course, this, that way run,
    With mad-cap pleasure, or hand-clasp'd amaze;
    Sweet in the air a mild-ton'd music plays,
    And progresses through its own labyrinth;
    Buds gather'd from the green spring's middle-days,
    They scatter'd,—daisy, primrose, hyacinth,—
Or round white columns wreath'd from capital to plinth.
    “Onward we floated o'er the panting streets,
    That seem'd throughout with upheld faces paved;
    Look where we will, our bird's-eye vision meets
    Legions of holiday; bright standards waved,
    And fluttering ensigns emulously craved
    Our minute's glance; a busy thunderous roar,
    From square to square, among the buildings raved,
    As when the sea, at flow, gluts up once more
The craggy hollowness of a wild reefed shore.
    “And ‘Bellanaine for ever!’ shouted they,
    While that fair Princess, from her winged chair,
    Bow'd low with high demeanour, and, to pay
    Their new-blown loyalty with guerdon fair,
    Still emptied, at meet distance, here and there,
    A plenty horn of jewels. And here I
    (Who wish to give the devil her due) declare
    Against that ugly piece of calumny,
Which calls them Highland pebble-stones not worth a fly.
    “Still ‘Bellanaine!’ they shouted, while we glide
    'Slant to a light Ionic portico,
    The city's delicacy, and the pride
    Of our Imperial Basilic; a row
    Of lords and ladies, on each hand, make show
    Submissive of knee-bent obeisance,
    All down the steps; and, as we enter'd, lo!
    The strangest sight—the most unlook'd-for chance—
All things turn'd topsy-turvy in a devil's dance.
    “'Stead of his anxious Majesty and court
    At the open doors, with wide saluting eyes,
    Congées and scape-graces of every sort,
    And all the smooth routine of gallantries,
    Was seen, to our immoderate surprise,
    A motley crowd thick gather'd in the hall,
    Lords, scullions, deputy-scullions, with wild cries
    Stunning the vestibule from wall to wall,
Where the Chief Justice on his knees and hands doth crawl.
    “Counts of the palace, and the state purveyor
    Of moth's-down, to make soft the royal beds,
    The Common Council and my fool Lord Mayor
    Marching a-row, each other slipshod treads;
    Powder'd bag-wigs and ruffy-tuffy heads
    Of cinder wenches meet and soil each other;
    Toe crush'd with heel ill-natur'd fighting breeds,
    Frill-rumpling elbows brew up many a bother,
And fists in the short ribs keep up the yell and pother.
    “A Poet, mounted on the Court-Clown's back,
    Rode to the Princess swift with spurring heels,
    And close into her face, with rhyming clack,
    Began a Prothalamion;—she reels,
    She falls, she faints! while laughter peals
    Over her woman's weakness. ‘Where!’ cried I,
    ‘Where is his Majesty?’ No person feels
    Inclin'd to answer; wherefore instantly
I plung'd into the crowd to find him or to die.
    “Jostling my way I gain'd the stairs, and ran
    To the first landing, where, incredible!
    I met, far gone in liquor, that old man,
    That vile impostor Hum,—”
    So far so well,—
    For we have prov'd the Mago never fell
    Down stairs on Crafticanto's evidence;
    And therefore duly shall proceed to tell,
    Plain in our own original mood and tense,
The sequel of this day, though labour 'tis immense!



The poetry of earth is never dead:
    When all the birds are faint with the hot sun,
    And hide in cooling trees, a voice will run
From hedge to hedge about the new-mown mead;
That is the Grasshopper's—he takes the lead
    In summer luxury,—he has never done
    With his delights; for when tired out with fun
He rests at ease beneath some pleasant weed.
The poetry of earth is ceasing never:
    On a lone winter evening, when the frost
        Has wrought a silence, from the stove there shrills
The Cricket's song, in warmth increasing ever,
    And seems to one in drowsiness half lost,
        The Grasshopper's among some grassy hills.



Highmindedness, a jealousy for good,
    A loving-kindness for the great man's fame,
    Dwells here and there with people of no name,
In noisome alley, and in pathless wood:
And where we think the truth least understood,
    Oft may be found a “singleness of aim,”
    That ought to frighten into hooded shame
A money mong'ring, pitiable brood.
How glorious this affection for the cause
    Of stedfast genius, toiling gallantly!
What when a stout unbending champion awes
    Envy, and Malice to their native sty?
Unnumber'd souls breathe out a still applause,
    Proud to behold him in his country's eye.



Great spirits now on earth are sojourning;
    He of the cloud, the cataract, the lake,
    Who on Helvellyn's summit, wide awake,
Catches his freshness from Archangel's wing:
He of the rose, the violet, the spring,
    The social smile, the chain for Freedom's sake:
    And lo!—whose stedfastness would never take
A meaner sound than Raphael's whispering.
And other spirits there are standing apart
    Upon the forehead of the age to come;
These, these will give the world another heart,
    And other pulses. Hear ye not the hum
Of mighty workings?—
    Listen awhile ye nations, and be dumb.



I cry your mercy—pity—love!—aye, love!
    Merciful love that tantalizes not,
One-thoughted, never-wandering, guileless love,
    Unmask'd, and being seen—without a blot!
O! let me have thee whole,—all—all—be mine!
    That shape, that fairness, that sweet minor zest
Of love, your kiss,—those hands, those eyes divine,
    That warm, white, lucent, million-pleasured breast,—
Yourself—your soul—in pity give me all,
    Withhold no atom's atom or I die,
Or living on perhaps, your wretched thrall,
    Forget, in the mist of idle misery,
Life's purposes,—the palate of my mind
Losing its gust, and my ambition blind!



The town, the churchyard, and the setting sun,
    The clouds, the trees, the rounded hills all seem,
    Though beautiful, cold—strange—as in a dream,
I dreamed long ago, now new begun.
The short-liv'd, paly Summer is but won
    From Winter's ague, for one hour's gleam;
    Though sapphire-warm, their stars do never beam:
All is cold Beauty; pain is never done:
For who has mind to relish, Minos-wise,
    The Real of Beauty, free from that dead hue
        Sickly imagination and sick pride
    Cast wan upon it! Burns! with honour due
        I oft have honour'd thee. Great shadow, hide
Thy face; I sin against thy native skies.