The jester walked in the garden:
The garden had fallen still;
He bade his soul rise upward
And stand on her window-sill.
It rose in a straight blue garment,
When owls began to call:
It had grown wise-tongued by thinking
Of a quiet and light footfall;
But the young queen would not listen;
She rose in her pale night-gown;
She drew in the heavy casement
And pushed the latches down.
He bade his heart go to her,
When the owls called out no more;
In a red and quivering garment
It sang to her through the door.
It had grown sweet-tongued by dreaming
Of a flutter of flower-like hair;
But she took up her fan from the table
And waved it off on the air.
‘I have cap and bells,’ he pondered,
‘I will send them to her and die’;
And when the morning whitened
He left them where she went by.
She laid them upon her bosom,
Under a cloud of her hair,
And her red lips sang them a love-song
Till stars grew out of the air.
She opened her door and her window,
And the heart and the soul came through,
To her right hand came the red one,
To her left hand came the blue.
They set up a noise like crickets,
A chattering wise and sweet,
And her hair was a folded flower
And the quiet of love in her feet.



If this importunate heart trouble your peace
With words lighter than air,
Or hopes that in mere hoping flicker and cease;
Crumple the rose in your hair;
And cover your lips with odorous twilight and say,
‘O Hearts of wind-blown flame!
O Winds, older than changing of night and day,
That murmuring and longing came
From marble cities loud with tabors of old
In dove-grey faery lands;
From battle-banners, fold upon purple fold,
Queens wrought with glimmering hands;
That saw young Niamh hover with love-lorn face
Above the wandering tide;
And lingered in the hidden desolate place
Where the last Phoenix died,
And wrapped the flames above his holy head;
And still murmur and long:
O Piteous Hearts, changing till change be dead
In a tumultuous song’:
And cover the pale blossoms of your breast
With your dim heavy hair,
And trouble with a sigh for all things longing for rest
The odorous twilight there.



Stand up and lift your hand and bless
A man that finds great bitterness
In thinking of his lost renown.
A Roman Caesar is held down
Under this hump.
God tries each man
According to a different plan.
I shall not cease to bless because
I lay about me with the taws
That night and morning I may thrash
Greek Alexander from my flesh,
Augustus Caesar, and after these
That great rogue Alcibiades.
To all that in your flesh have stood
And blessed, I give my gratitude,
Honoured by all in their degrees,
But most to Alcibiades.



To Garret or Cellar a wheel I send,
But every butterfly to a friend.



O, but I saw a solemn sight;
Said the rambling, shambling travelling-man;
Castle Dargan's ruin all lit,
Lovely ladies dancing in it.
What though they danced! Those days are gone,
Said the wicked, crooked, hawthorn tree;
Lovely lady or gallant man
Are blown cold dust or a bit of bone.
O, what is life but a mouthful of air?
Said the rambling, shambling travelling-man;
Yet all the lovely things that were
Live, for I saw them dancing there.
Nobody knows what may befall,
Said the wicked, crooked, hawthorn tree.
I have stood so long by a gap in the wall
Maybe I shall not die at all.



The bravest from the gods but ask:
A house, a sword, a ship, a mask.



I climb to the tower-top and lean upon broken stone,
A mist that is like blown snow is sweeping over all,
Valley, river, and elms, under the light of a moon
That seems unlike itself, that seems unchangeable,
A glittering sword out of the east. A puff of wind
And those white glimmering fragments of the mist sweep by.
Frenzies bewilder, reveries perturb the mind;
Monstrous familiar images swim to the mind's eye.
‘Vengeance upon the murderers,’ the cry goes up,
‘Vengeance for Jacques Molay.’ In cloud-pale rags, or in lace,
The rage-driven, rage-tormented, and rage-hungry troop,
Trooper belabouring trooper, biting at arm or at face,
Plunges towards nothing, arms and fingers spreading wide
For the embrace of nothing; and I, my wits astray
Because of all that senseless tumult, all but cried
For vengeance on the murderers of Jacques Molay.
Their legs long, delicate and slender, aquamarine their eyes,
Magical unicorns bear ladies on their backs.
The ladies close their musing eyes. No prophecies,
Remembered out of Babylonian almanacs,
Have closed the ladies' eyes, their minds are but a pool
Where even longing drowns under its own excess;
Nothing but stillness can remain when hearts are full
Of their own sweetness, bodies of their loveliness.
The cloud-pale unicorns, the eyes of aquamarine,
The quivering half-closed eyelids, the rags of cloud or of lace,
Or eyes that rage has brightened, arms it has made lean,
Give place to an indifferent multitude, give place
To brazen hawks. Nor self-delighting reverie,
Nor hate of what's to come, nor pity for what's gone,
Nothing but grip of claw, and the eye's complacency,
The innumerable clanging wings that have put out the moon.
I turn away and shut the door, and on the stair
Wonder how many times I could have proved my worth
In something that all others understand or share;
But O! ambitious heart, had such a proof drawn forth
A company of friends, a conscience set at ease,
It had but made us pine the more. The abstract joy,
The half-read wisdom of daemonic images,
Suffice the ageing man as once the growing boy.



The bees build in the crevices
Of loosening masonry, and there
The mother birds bring grubs and flies.
My wall is loosening; honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
We are closed in, and the key is turned
On our uncertainty; somewhere
A man is killed, or a house burned,
Yet no clear fact to be discerned:
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
A barricade of stone or of wood;
Some fourteen days of civil war;
Last night they trundled down the road
That dead young soldier in his blood:
Come build in the empty house of the stare.
We had fed the heart on fantasies,
The heart's grown brutal from the fare;
More substance in our enmities
Than in our love; O honey-bees,
Come build in the empty house of the stare.



A statesman is an easy man,
He tells his lies by tote;
A journalist makes up his lies
And takes you by the throat;
So stay at home and drink your beer
And let the neighbours vote,
    Said the man in the golden breastplate
    Under the old stone Cross.
Because this age and the next age
Engender in the ditch,
No man can know a happy man
From any passing wretch,
If Folly link with Elegance
No man knows which is which,
    Said the man in the golden breastplate
    Under the old stone Cross.
But actors lacking music
Do most excite my spleen,
They say it is more human
To shuffle, grunt and groan,
Not knowing what unearthly stuff
Rounds a mighty scene.Said the man in the golden breastplateUnder the old stone Cross.



I saw a staring virgin stand
Where holy Dionysus died,
And tear the heart out of his side,
And lay the heart upon her hand
And bear that beating heart away;
And then did all the Muses sing
Of Magnus Annus at the spring,
As though God's death were but a play.
Another Troy must rise and set,
Another lineage feed the crow,
Another Argo's painted prow
Drive to a flashier bauble yet.
The Roman Empire stood appalled:
It dropped the reins of peace and war
When that fierce virgin and her Star
Out of the fabulous darkness called.
In pity for man's darkening thought
He walked that room and issued thence
In Galilean turbulence;
The Babylonian starlight brought
A fabulous, formless darkness in;
Odour of blood when Christ was slain
Made all Platonic tolerance vain
And vain all Doric discipline.
Everything that man esteems
Endures a moment or a day.
Love's pleasure drives his love away,
The painter's brush consumes his dreams;
The herald's cry, the soldier's tread
Exhaust his glory and his might:
Whatever flames upon the night
Man's own resinous heart has fed.



They shall be remembered for ever,
They shall be alive for ever,
They shall be speaking for ever,
The people shall hear them for ever.



Bring me to the blasted oak
That I, midnight upon the stroke,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
May call down curses on his head
Because of my dear Jack that's dead.
Coxcomb was the least he said:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Nor was he Bishop when his ban
Banished Jack the Journeyman,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor so much as parish priest,
Yet he, an old book in his fist,
Cried that we lived like beast and beast:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
The Bishop has a skin, God knows,
Wrinkled like the foot of a goose,
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Nor can he hide in holy black
The heron's hunch upon his back,
But a birch-tree stood my Jack:
The solid man and the coxcomb.
Jack had my virginity,
And bids me to the oak, for he
(All find safety in the tomb.)
Wanders out into the night
And there is shelter under it,
But should that other come, I spit:
The solid man and the coxcomb.



‘I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,’ cried she.
‘Come out of charity,
Come dance with me in Ireland.’
One man, one man alone
In that outlandish gear,
One solitary man
Of all that rambled there
Had turned his stately head.
‘That is a long way off,
And time runs on,’ he said,
‘And the night grows rough.’
‘I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,’ cried she.
‘Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.’
‘The fiddlers are all thumbs,
Or the fiddle-string accursed,
The drums and the kettledrums
And the trumpets all are burst,
And the trombone,’ cried he,
‘The trumpet and trombone,’
And cocked a malicious eye,
‘But time runs on, runs on.’
‘I am of Ireland,
And the Holy Land of Ireland,
And time runs on,’ cried she.
‘Come out of charity
And dance with me in Ireland.’



‘O cruel Death, give three things back,’
Sang a bone upon the shore;
‘A child found all a child can lack,
Whether of pleasure or of rest,
Upon the abundance of my breast’:
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
‘Three dear things that women know,’
Sang a bone upon the shore;
‘A man if I but held him so
When my body was alive
Found all the pleasure that life gave’:
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.
‘The third thing that I think of yet,’
Sang a bone upon the shore,
‘Is that morning when I met
Face to face my rightful man
And did after stretch and yawn’:
A bone wave-whitened and dried in the wind.



Old fathers, great-grandfathers,
Rise as kindred should.
If ever lover's loneliness
Came where you stood,
Pray that Heaven protect us
That protect your blood.
The mountain throws a shadow,
Thin is the moon's horn;
What did we remember
Under the ragged thorn?
Dread has followed longing,
And our hearts are torn.



I thought no more was needed
Youth to prolong
Than dumb-bell and foil
To keep the body young.
O who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?
Though I have many words,
What woman's satisfied,
I am no longer faint
Because at her side?
O who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?
I have not lost desire
But the heart that I had;
I thought 'twould burn my body
Laid on the death-bed,
For who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?



A sudden blow: the great wings beating still
Above the staggering girl, her thighs caressed
By the dark webs, her nape caught in his bill,
He holds her helpless breast upon his breast.
How can those terrified vague fingers push
The feathered glory from her loosening thighs?
And how can body, laid in that white rush,
But feel the strange heart beating where it lies?
A shudder in the loins engenders there
The broken wall, the burning roof and tower
And Agamemnon dead.
Being so caught up,
So mastered by the brute blood of the air,
Did she put on his knowledge with his power
Before the indifferent beak could let her drop?



The girl goes dancing there
On the leaf-sown, new-mown, smooth
Grass plot of the garden;
Escaped from bitter youth,
Escaped out of her crowd,
Or out of her black cloud.
Ah dancer, ah sweet dancer!
If strange men come from the house
To lead her away do not say
That she is happy being crazy;
Lead them gently astray;
Let her finish her dance,
Let her finish her dance.
Ah dancer, ah sweet dancer!



When you and my true lover meet
And he plays tunes between your feet,
Speak no evil of the soul,
Nor think that body is the whole
For I that am his daylight lady
Know worse evil of the body;
But in honour split his love
Till either neither have enough,
That I may hear if we should kiss
A contrapuntal serpent hiss,
You, should hand explore a thigh,
All the labouring heavens sigh.



Singing in this London street,
To the rhythm of their feet,
By a window's feeble light
Are two ragged children bright—
Larger sparrows of the town,
Nested among vapours brown.
Far away the starry mirth
Overhangs the wooded earth.
If these merry ones should know,
Dancing by the window glow,
Starry laughter, woodland leisure,
Would they foot so fleet a measure?
Ah no!
Maybe now in some far lane,
Dancing on the moon's broad stain,
Watched of placid poplar-trees
Children sing in twos and threes.
Hush! hush! hush! On every lip
Lies a chilly finger tip,
As there floats from fields afar
Clamour of the lone nightjar.
If these merry ones should know,
Dancing by the window glow,
Other people's mirth and pleasure,
Would they foot so fleet a measure?
Ah no!
Maybe in some isle of isles,
In the South Sea's azure miles,
Dance the savage children small,
Singing to their light footfall.
Hush! hush! hush! they pause and point
Where a shell the seas anoint,
Dropping liquid rainbow light,
Rolls along the sea sands white.
If these merry ones should know,
Dancing by the window glow,
Other people's mirth and pleasure,
Would they foot so fleet a measure?
Ah no!
Maybe now a Bedouin's brood,
Laughing goes in wildest mood,
Past the spears and palm-stems dry,
Past the camel's dreaming eye.
Hush! hush! hush! they pause them where
Bows the Bedouin's whitening hair—
Peace of youth and peace of age,
Thoughtless joy and sorrow sage.
If these merry ones should know,
Dancing by the window glow,
Other people's mirth and pleasure,
Would they foot so fleet a measure?
Ah no!
Others know the healing earth,
Others know the starry mirth;
They will wrap them in the shroud,
Sorrow-worn, yet placid-browed.
London streets have heritage,
Blinder sorrows, harder wage—
Sordid sorrows of the mart,
Sorrows eating brain and heart.
If these merry ones should know,
Dancing by the window glow,
Of the healing earth May-treasure,
Would they foot so fleet a measure?
Ah no!



Dear Craoibhin Aoibhin, look into our case.
When we are high and airy hundreds say
That if we hold that flight they'll leave the place,
While those same hundreds mock another day
Because we have made our art of common things,
So bitterly, you'd dream they longed to look
All their lives through into some drift of wings.
You've dandled them and fed them from the book
And know them to the bone; impart to us—
We'll keep the secret—a new trick to please.
Is there a bridle for this Proteus
That turns and changes like his draughty seas?
Or is there none, most popular of men,
But when they mock us, that we mock again?



You gave, but will not give again
Until enough of Paudeen's pence
By Biddy's halfpennies have lain
To be ‘some sort of evidence,’
Before you'll put your guineas down,
That things it were a pride to give
Are what the blind and ignorant town
Imagines best to make it thrive.
What cared Duke Ercole, that bid
His mummers to the market-place,
What th' onion-sellers thought or did
So that his Plautus set the pace
For the Italian comedies?
And Guidobaldo, when he made
That grammar school of courtesies
Where wit and beauty learned their trade
Upon Urbino's windy hill,
Had sent no runners to and fro
That he might learn the shepherds' will.
And when they drove out Cosimo,
Indifferent how the rancour ran,
He gave the hours they had set free
To Michelozzo's latest plan
For the San Marco Library,
Whence turbulent Italy should draw
Delight in Art whose end is peace,
In logic and in natural law
By sucking at the dugs of Greece.
Your open hand but shows our loss,
For he knew better how to live.
Let Paudeens play at pitch and toss,
Look up in the sun's eye and give
What the exultant heart calls good
That some new day may breed the best
Because you gave, not what they would,
But the right twigs for an eagle's nest!



Beautiful lofty things; O'Leary's noble head;
My father upon the Abbey stage, before him a raging crowd.
‘This Land of Saints,’ and then as the applause died out,
‘Of plaster Saints;’ his beautiful mischievous head thrown back.
Standish O'Grady supporting himself between the tables
Speaking to a drunken audience high nonsensical words;
Augusta Gregory seated at her great ormolu table
Her eightieth winter approaching; ‘Yesterday he threatened my life,
I told him that nightly from six to seven I sat at this table
The blinds drawn up;’ Maud Gonne at Howth station waiting a train,
Pallas Athena in that straight back and arrogant head:
All the Olympians; a thing never known again.



Stretch towards the moonless midnight of the trees
As though that hand could reach to where they stand,
And they but famous old upholsteries
Delightful to the touch; tighten that hand
As though to draw them closer yet.
Rammed full
Of that most sensuous silence of the night
(For since the horizon's bought strange dogs are still)
Climb to your chamber full of books and wait,
No books upon the knee and no one there
But a great dane that cannot bay the moon
And now lies sunk in sleep.
What climbs the stair?
Nothing that common women ponder on
If you are worth my hope! Neither Content
Nor satisfied Conscience, but that great family
Some ancient famous authors misrepresent,
The Proud Furies each with her torch on high.



That crazed girl improvising her music,
Her poetry, dancing upon the shore,
Her soul in division from itself
Climbing, falling she knew not where,
Hiding amid the cargo of a steamship
Her knee-cap broken, that girl I declare
A beautiful lofty thing, or a thing
Heroically lost, heroically found.
No matter what disaster occurred
She stood in desperate music wound
Wound, wound, and she made in her triumph
Where the bales and the baskets lay
No common intelligible sound
But sang, ‘O sea-starved hungry sea.’



Why should I seek for love or study it?
It is of God and passes human wit;
I study hatred with great diligence,
For that's a passion in my own control,
A sort of besom that can clear the soul
Of everything that is not mind or sense.
Why do I hate man, woman or event?
That is a light my jealous soul has sent.
From terror and deception freed it can
Discover impurities, can show at last
How soul may walk when all such things are past,
How soul could walk before such things began.
Then my delivered soul herself shall learn
A darker knowledge and in hatred turn
From every thought of God mankind has had.
Thought is a garment and the soul's a bride
That cannot in that trash and tinsel hide:
Hatred of God may bring the soul to God.
At stroke of midnight soul cannot endure
A bodily or mental furniture.
What can she take until her Master give!
Where can she look until He make the show!
What can she know until He bid her know!
How can she live till in her blood He live!



Civilisation is hooped together, brought
Under a rule, under the semblance of peace
By manifold illusion; but man's life is thought,
And he, despite his terror, cannot cease
Ravening through century after century,
Ravening, raging, and uprooting that he may come
Into the desolation of reality:
Egypt and Greece good-bye, and good-bye, Rome!
Hermits upon Mount Meru or Everest,
Caverned in night under the drifted snow,
Or where that snow and winter's dreadful blast
Beat down upon their naked bodies, know
That day brings round the night, that before dawn
His glory and his monuments are gone.



Three times the roses have grown less and less,
And thrice the peaches flushed upon the walls,
And thrice the corn around the sickles flamed,
Since 'mong my people, tented on the hills,
Where they all summer feed their wandering flocks,
He stood a messenger. In April's prime
(Swallows were flashing their white breasts above
Or perching on the tents, a-weary still
From waste seas cross'd, yet ever garrulous)
Along the velvet vale I saw him come—
Feet of dark Gomez, where now wander ye?
In autumn, when far down the mountain slopes
The heavy clusters of the grapes were full,
I saw him sigh and turn and pass away;
For I and all my people were accurst
Of his sad God; and down among the grass
Hiding my face, I cried long, bitterly.
'Twas evening, and the cricket nation sang
Around my head and danced among the grass;
And all was dimness, till a dying leaf
Slid circling down and softly touched my lips
With dew, as though 'twere sealing them for death.
Yet somewhere in the footsore world we meet,
We two, before we die; for Azolar,
The star-taught Moor, said thus it was decreed
By those wan stars that sit in company
Above the Alpujarras on their thrones:
That when the stars of our nativity
Draw star to star, as on that eve he passed
Down the long valleys from my people's tents,
We meet—we two. [She opens the casement. A sound of laughter floats in.] How merry all these are
Among the fruit! But there, lame Cola crouches
Away from all the others. Now the sun
Sinks, shining on the little crucifix
Hung on his doublet—dear and mournful child,
Seër of visions! Now eve falls asleep,
The hour of incantation comes a-tiptoe,
And Cola, seeing, knows the sign and rises.
Thus do I burn these precious herbs, whose smoke
Pours up and floats in fragrance round my head
In coil on coil of azure.
All is ready.
I will not share your sin.
This is no sin.
No sin to see in coil on coil of azure
Pictured, where wander the beloved feet
Whose footfall I have longed for, three sad summers.
Why these new fears?
The great monk Ebremar,
The dark still man, has come and says 'tis sin.
They say the wish itself is half the sin;
Then has this one been sinned full many times.
Yet 'tis no sin; my father taught it me.
He was a man most learned and most mild,
Who, dreaming to a wondrous age, lived on,
Tending the roses round his lattice door.
For years his days had dawned and faded thus
Among the plants; the flowery silence fell
Deep in his soul, like rain upon a soil
Worn by the solstice fierce, and made it pure.
Would he teach any sin?
Gaze in the cloud
Yourself.
None but the innocent can see.
They say I am all ugliness; lame-footed
I am; one shoulder turned awry—why then
Should I be good? But you are beautiful.
I cannot see.
The beetles, and the bats,
And spiders are my friends; I'm theirs, and they are
Not good; but you are like the butterflies.
I cannot see! I cannot see! but you
Shall see a thing to talk on when you're old,
Under a lemon tree beside your door;
And all the elders sitting in the sun
Will wondering listen, and this tale shall ease
For long the burthen of their talking griefs.
Upon my knees I pray you, let it sleep,
The vision.
You are pale and weeping. Child,
Be not afraid, you'll see no fearful thing.
Thus, thus I beckon from her viewless fields—
Thus beckon to our aid a Phantom fair
And calm, robed all in raiment moony white.
She was a great enchantress once of yore,
Whose dwelling was a tree-wrapt island, lulled
Far out upon the water world and ringed
With wonderful white sands, where never yet
Were furled the wings of ships. There in a dell,
A lily-blanchèd place, she sat and sang,
And in her singing wove around her head
White lilies, and her song flew forth afar
Along the sea; and many a man grew hushed
In his own house or 'mong the merchants grey,
Hearing the far-off singing guile, and groaned,
And manned an argosy and sailing died.
In the far isle she sang herself asleep,
But now I wave her hither to my side.
Stay, stay, or I will hold your white arms down.
Ah me! I cannot reach them—here and there
Darting you wave them, darting in the vapour.
Heard you? Your lute hung in the window sounded!
I feel a finger drawn across my cheek!
The phantoms come; they come, they come, they come!
I wave them hither, my breast heaves with joy.
Ah! now I'm Eastern-hearted once again,
And, while they gather round my beckoning arms,
I'll sing the songs the dusky lovers sing,
Wandering in sultry palaces of Ind,
A lotus in their hands—
Young Moorish girl
Taken in magic, in the Church's name
I here arrest thee.
It was Allah's will.
Touch not this boy, for he is innocent.
Forgive! for I have told them everything.
They said I'd burn in hell unless I told.
Forgive me!
It was Allah's will.
The cords.
No need to bind my hands. Where are ye, sirs?
For ye are hid with vapour.
Round the stake
The vapour is much thicker.
God! the stake!
Ye said that ye would fright her from her sin—
No more; take me instead of her, great sirs.
She was my only friend; I'm lame, you know—
One shoulder twisted, and the children cry
Names after me.
Lady—
I come.
Forgive,
Forgive, or I will die.
'Twas Allah's will.
Will you not hear my last new song?
Hush, hush!
So she must burn, you say?
She must in truth.
Will he not spare her life? How would one matter
When there are many?
Ebremar will stamp
This heathen horde away. You need not hope;
And know you not she kissed that pious child
With poisonous lips, and he is pining since?
You're full of wordiness. Come, hear my song.
In truth, an evil race. Why strive for her,
A little Moorish girl?
Small worth.
My song—
I had a sister like her once, my friend.
Where is our brother Peter? When you're nigh,
He is not far. I'd have him speak for her.
I saw his jovial mood bring once a smile
To sainted Ebremar's sad eyes. I think
He loves our brother Peter in his heart.
If Peter would but ask her life—who knows?
He digs his cabbages. He brings to mind
That song I've made. 'Tis of an Irish tale.
A saint of Munster, when much fasting, saw
This vision of Peter and the burning gate.
        I saw a stranger tap and wait
        Beside the door of Peter's gate,
        The stranger shouted, ‘Open wide
        Thy sacred door;’ but Peter cried,
        ‘No, thy home is deepest hell,
        Deeper than the deepest well.’
        Then the stranger softly crew—
        ‘Cock-a-doodle-doodle-do!’
        Answered Peter: ‘Enter in,
        Friend; but 'twere a deadly sin
        Ever more to speak a word
        Of any unblessed earthly bird.’
Be still; I hear the step of Ebremar.
Yonder he comes; bright-eyed, and hollow-cheeked
From fasting—see, the red light slanting down
From the great painted window wraps his brow,
As with an aureole.
My suit to you—
I will not hear; the Moorish girl must die.
I will burn heresy from this mad earth,
And—
Mercy is the manna of the world.
The wage of sin is death.
No use. No use.
My lord, if it must be, I pray descend
Yourself into the dungeon 'neath our feet
And importune with weighty words this Moor,
That she forswear her heresies and save
Her soul from seas of endless flame in hell.
I speak alone with servants of the Cross
And dying men—and yet—But no, farewell.
No use.
Away! [They go.] Hear, thou enduring God,
Who giveth to the golden-crested wren
Her hanging mansion. Give to me, I pray,
The burthen of Thy truth. Reach down Thy hands
And fill me with Thy rage, that I may bruise
The heathen. Yea, and shake the sullen kings
Upon their thrones. The lives of men shall flow
As quiet as the little rivulets
Beneath the sheltering shadow of Thy Church;
And Thou shalt bend, enduring God, the knees
Of the great warriors whose names have sung
The world to its fierce infancy again.
He digs his cabbages. He brings to mind
That song I've made. 'Tis of an Irish tale.
A saint of Munster, when much fasting, saw
This vision of Peter and the burning gate.
        I saw a stranger tap and wait
        Beside the door of Peter's gate,
        The stranger shouted, ‘Open wide
        Thy sacred door;’ but Peter cried,
        ‘No, thy home is deepest hell,
        Deeper than the deepest well.’
        Then the stranger softly crew—
        ‘Cock-a-doodle-doodle-do!’
        Answered Peter: ‘Enter in,
        Friend; but 'twere a deadly sin
        Ever more to speak a word
        Of any unblessed earthly bird.’
Be still; I hear the step of Ebremar.
Yonder he comes; bright-eyed, and hollow-cheeked
From fasting—see, the red light slanting down
From the great painted window wraps his brow,
As with an aureole.
My suit to you—
I will not hear; the Moorish girl must die.
I will burn heresy from this mad earth,
And—
Mercy is the manna of the world.
The wage of sin is death.
No use. No use.
My lord, if it must be, I pray descend
Yourself into the dungeon 'neath our feet
And importune with weighty words this Moor,
That she forswear her heresies and save
Her soul from seas of endless flame in hell.
I speak alone with servants of the Cross
And dying men—and yet—But no, farewell.
No use.
Away! [They go.] Hear, thou enduring God,
Who giveth to the golden-crested wren
Her hanging mansion. Give to me, I pray,
The burthen of Thy truth. Reach down Thy hands
And fill me with Thy rage, that I may bruise
The heathen. Yea, and shake the sullen kings
Upon their thrones. The lives of men shall flow
As quiet as the little rivulets
Beneath the sheltering shadow of Thy Church;
And Thou shalt bend, enduring God, the knees
Of the great warriors whose names have sung
The world to its fierce infancy again.
Oh, swallows, swallows, swallows, will ye fly
This eve, to-morrow, or to-morrow night
Above the farm-house by the little lake
That rustles in the reeds with patient pushes,
Soft as the whispering of a lost footstep
Circling the brain? My brothers now pass down
Along the cornfield, where the poppies grow,
To their farm work; how silent all will be!
But no, in this warm weather, 'mong the hills,
Will move the faint far thunder-sound, as though
The world were dreaming in its summer sleep;
That will be later, day is dawning.
Hassan is with them too—he was so small,
A weak, thin child, when last I saw him there.
He will be taller now—'twas long ago.
The men are busy in the glimmering square.
I hear the murmur as they raise the beams
To build the circling seats, where high in air
Soon will the churchmen nod above the crowd.
I'm not of that pale company whose feet
Ere long shall falter through the noisy square,
And not come thence; for here in this small ring—
Hearken, ye swallows!—I have hoarded up
A poison drop. A toy, a fancy once,
A fashion with us Moorish maids, begot
Of dreaming and of watching by the door
The shadows pass; but now, I love my ring,
For it alone of all the world will do
My bidding. [Sucks poison from the ring.] Now 'tis done, and I am glad
And free—'twill thieve away with sleepy mood
My thoughts, and yonder brightening patch of sky
With three bars crossed, and these four walls my world,
And yon few stars grown dim, like eyes of lovers
The noisy world divides. How soon a deed
So small makes one grow weak and tottering!
Where shall I lay me down? That question is
A weighty question, for it is the last.
Not there, for there a spider weaves her web.
Nay here, I'll lay me down where I can watch
The burghers of the night fade one by one.
An apple-blossom circles in the gloom,
Floating from yon barred window. Small new-comer,
Thou'rt welcome. Lie there close against my fingers.
I wonder which is whitest, they or thou.
'Tis thou, for they've grown blue around the nails.
My blossom, I am dying, and the stars
Are dying too. They were full seven stars;
Two only now they are, two side by side.
Oh, Allah! it was thus they shone that night
When my lost lover left these arms. My Gomez
We meet at last, the ministering stars
Of our nativity hang side by side,
And throb within the circles of green dawn.
Too late, too late, for I am near to death.
I try to lift mine arms—they fall again.
This death is heavy in my veins like sleep.
I cannot even crawl along the stones
A little nearer those bright stars. Tell me,
Is it your message, stars, that when death comes
My soul shall touch with his, and the two flames
Be one? I think all's finished now and sealed.
Oh, swallows, swallows, swallows, will ye fly
This eve, to-morrow, or to-morrow night
Above the farm-house by the little lake
That rustles in the reeds with patient pushes,
Soft as the whispering of a lost footstep
Circling the brain? My brothers now pass down
Along the cornfield, where the poppies grow,
To their farm work; how silent all will be!
But no, in this warm weather, 'mong the hills,
Will move the faint far thunder-sound, as though
The world were dreaming in its summer sleep;
That will be later, day is dawning.
Hassan is with them too—he was so small,
A weak, thin child, when last I saw him there.
He will be taller now—'twas long ago.
The men are busy in the glimmering square.
I hear the murmur as they raise the beams
To build the circling seats, where high in air
Soon will the churchmen nod above the crowd.
I'm not of that pale company whose feet
Ere long shall falter through the noisy square,
And not come thence; for here in this small ring—
Hearken, ye swallows!—I have hoarded up
A poison drop. A toy, a fancy once,
A fashion with us Moorish maids, begot
Of dreaming and of watching by the door
The shadows pass; but now, I love my ring,
For it alone of all the world will do
My bidding. [Sucks poison from the ring.] Now 'tis done, and I am glad
And free—'twill thieve away with sleepy mood
My thoughts, and yonder brightening patch of sky
With three bars crossed, and these four walls my world,
And yon few stars grown dim, like eyes of lovers
The noisy world divides. How soon a deed
So small makes one grow weak and tottering!
Where shall I lay me down? That question is
A weighty question, for it is the last.
Not there, for there a spider weaves her web.
Nay here, I'll lay me down where I can watch
The burghers of the night fade one by one.
An apple-blossom circles in the gloom,
Floating from yon barred window. Small new-comer,
Thou'rt welcome. Lie there close against my fingers.
I wonder which is whitest, they or thou.
'Tis thou, for they've grown blue around the nails.
My blossom, I am dying, and the stars
Are dying too. They were full seven stars;
Two only now they are, two side by side.
Oh, Allah! it was thus they shone that night
When my lost lover left these arms. My Gomez
We meet at last, the ministering stars
Of our nativity hang side by side,
And throb within the circles of green dawn.
Too late, too late, for I am near to death.
I try to lift mine arms—they fall again.
This death is heavy in my veins like sleep.
I cannot even crawl along the stones
A little nearer those bright stars. Tell me,
Is it your message, stars, that when death comes
My soul shall touch with his, and the two flames
Be one? I think all's finished now and sealed.
Young Moorish girl, thy final hour is here;
Cast off thy heresies, and save thy soul
From the undying worm. She sleeps—[Starting.] Mosada—
Oh, God!—awake! thou shalt not die. She sleeps,
Her head cast backward in her unloosed hair.
Look up, look up, thy Gomez is by thee.
A fearful paleness creeps across her breast
And out-spread arms. [Casting himself down by her.] Be not so pale, dear love.
Oh, can my kisses bring a flush no more
Upon thy face? How heavily thy head
Hangs on my breast! Listen, we shall be safe.
We'll fly from this before the morning star.
Dear heart, there is a secret way that leads
Its paven length towards the river's marge
Where lies a shallop in the yellow reeds.
Awake, awake, and we will sail afar,
Far, far along the fleet white river's face—
Alone with our own whispers and replies—
Alone among the murmurs of the dawn.
Once in thy nation none shall know that I
Was Ebremar, whose thoughts were fixed on God,
And heaven, and holiness.
Let's talk and grieve,
For that's the sweetest music for sad souls.
Day's dead, all flame-bewildered, and the hills
In list'ning silence gazing on our grief.
I never knew an eve so marvellous still.
Her dreams are talking with old years. Awake,
Grieve not, for Gomez kneels beside thee—
Gomez,
'Tis late, wait one more day; below the hills
The foot-worn way is long, and it grows dark.
It is the darkest eve I ever knew.
I kneel by thee—no parting now—look up.
She smiles—is happy with her wandering griefs.
So you must go; kiss me before you go.
Oh, would the busy minutes might fold up
Their thieving wings that we might never part.
I never knew a night so honey-sweet.
There is no leave-taking. I go no more.
Safe on the breast of Gomez lies thy head,
Unhappy one.
Go not, go not, go not;
For night comes fast. Look down on me, my love,
And see how thick the dew lies on my face.
I never knew a night so dew-bedrowned.
Oh, hush the wandering music of thy mind.
Look on me once. Why sink your eyelids thus?
Why do you hang so heavy in my arms?
Love, will you die when we have met? One look
Give to thy Gomez.
Gomez—he has gone
From here, along the shadowy way that winds
Companioning the river's pilgrim torch.
I'll see him longer if I stand out here
Upon the mountain's brow. [She tries to stand and totters.Ebremar supports her, and she stands as if pointing down into a valley.]

Yonder he treads
The path o'er-muffled with the leaves—dead leaves,
Like happy thoughts grown sad in evil days.
He fades among the mists; how fast they come,
And pour upon the world! Ah! well-a-day!
Poor love and sorrow, with their arms thrown round
Each other's necks, and whispering as they go,
Still wander through the world. He's gone, he's gone.
I'm weary—weary, and 'tis very cold.
I'll draw my cloak around me; it is cold.
I never knew a night so bitter cold.
My lord, you called?
Not I. This maid is dead.
From poison; for you cannot trust these Moors.
You're pale, my lord.
His lips are quivering;
The flame that shone within his eyes but now
Has flickered and gone out.
I am not well.
'Twill pass. I'll see the other prisoners now,
And importune their souls to penitence,
So they escape from hell. But, pardon me,
Your hood is threadbare—see that it be changed
Before we take our seats above the crowd.



Remembering thee, I search out these faint flowers
    Of rhyme; remembering thee, this crescent night,
    While o'er the buds, and o'er the grass-blades, bright
And clinging with the dew of odorous showers,
With purple sandals sweep the grave-eyed hours—
    Remembering thee, I muse, while fades in flight
    The honey-hearted leisure of the light,
And hanging o'er the hush of willow bowers,
Of ceaseless loneliness and high regret
    Sings the young wistful spirit of a star
        Enfolden in the shadows of the East,
        And silence holding revelry and feast;
    Just now my soul rose up and touched it, far
In space, made equal with a sigh, we met.



Though you are in your shining days,
Voices among the crowd
And new friends busy with your praise,
Be not unkind or proud,
But think about old friends the most:
Time's bitter flood will rise,
Your beauty perish and be lost
For all eyes but these eyes.



When I play on my fiddle in Dooney,
Folk dance like a wave of the sea;
My cousin is priest in Kilvarnet,
My brother in Mocharabuiee.
I passed my brother and cousin:
They read in their books of prayer;
I read in my book of songs
I bought at the Sligo fair.
When we come at the end of time
To Peter sitting in state,
He will smile on the three old spirits,
But call me first through the gate;
For the good are always the merry,
Save by an evil chance,
And the merry love the fiddle,
And the merry love to dance:
And when the folk there spy me,
They will all come up to me,
With ‘Here is the fiddler of Dooney!’
And dance like a wave of the sea.



Under the Great Comedian's tomb the crowd.
A bundle of tempestuous cloud is blown
About the sky; where that is clear of cloud
Brightness remains; a brighter star shoots down;
What shudders run through all that animal blood?
What is this sacrifice? Can someone there
Recall the Cretan barb that pierced a star?
Rich foliage that the starlight glittered through,
A frenzied crowd, and where the branches sprang
A beautiful seated boy; a sacred bow;
A woman, and an arrow on a string;
A pierced boy, image of a star laid low.
That woman, the Great Mother imaging,
Cut out his heart. Some master of design
Stamped boy and tree upon Sicilian coin.
An age is the reversal of an age:
When strangers murdered Emmet, Fitzgerald, Tone,
We lived like men that watch a painted stage.
What matter for the scene, the scene once gone:
It had not touched our lives. But popular rage,
Hysterica passio dragged this quarry down.
None shared our guilt; nor did we play a part
Upon a painted stage when we devoured his heart.
Come, fix upon me that accusing eye.
I thirst for accusation. All that was sung,
All that was said in Ireland is a lie
Bred out of the contagion of the throng,
Saving the rhyme rats hear before they die.
Leave nothing but the nothings that belong
To this bare soul, let all men judge that can
Whether it be an animal or a man.
The rest I pass, one sentence I unsay.
Had de Valera eaten Parnell's heart
No loose-lipped demagogue had won the day,
No civil rancour torn the land apart.
Had Cosgrave eaten Parnell's heart, the land's
Imagination had been satisfied,
Or lacking that, government in such hands,
O'Higgins its sole statesman had not died.
Had even O'Duffy—but I name no more—
Their school a crowd, his master solitude;
Through Jonathan Swift's dark grove he passed, and there
Plucked bitter wisdom that enriched his blood.



A man that had six mortal wounds, a man
Violent and famous, strode among the dead;
Eyes stared out of the branches and were gone.
Then certain Shrouds that muttered head to head
Came and were gone. He leant upon a tree
As though to meditate on wounds and blood.
A Shroud that seemed to have authority
Among those bird-like things came, and let fall
A bundle of linen. Shrouds by two and three
Came creeping up because the man was still.
And thereupon that linen-carrier said
‘Your life can grow much sweeter if you will
‘Obey our ancient rule and make a shroud;
Mainly because of what we only know
The rattle of those arms makes us afraid.
‘We thread the needles' eyes and all we do
All must together do.’ That done, the man
Took up the nearest and began to sew.
‘Now we shall sing and sing the best we can
But first you must be told our character:
Convicted cowards all by kindred slain
‘Or driven from home and left to die in fear.’
They sang but had nor human notes nor words,
Though all was done in common as before,
They had changed their throats and had the throats of birds.



Pythagoras planned it. Why did the people stare?
His numbers, though they moved or seemed to move
In marble or in bronze, lacked character.
But boys and girls, pale from the imagined love
Of solitary beds, knew what they were,
That passion could bring character enough,
And pressed at midnight in some public place
Live lips upon a plummet-measured face.
No! Greater than Pythagoras, for the men
That with a mallet or a chisel modelled these
Calculations that look but casual flesh, put down
All Asiatic vague immensities,
And not the banks of oars that swam upon
The many-headed foam at Salamis.
Europe put off that foam when Phidias
Gave women dreams and dreams their looking glass.
One image crossed the many-headed, sat
Under the tropic shade, grew round and slow,
No Hamlet thin from eating flies, a fat
Dreamer of the Middle-Ages. Empty eye-balls knew
That knowledge increases unreality, that
Mirror on mirror mirrored is all the show.
When gong and conch declare the hour to bless,
Grimalkin crawls to Buddha's emptiness.
When Pearse summoned Cuchulain to his side
What stalked through the Post Office? What intellect,
What calculation, number, measurement, replied?
We Irish, born into that ancient sect
But thrown upon this filthy modern tide
And by its formless, spawning, fury wrecked
Climb to our proper dark, that we may trace
The lineaments of a plummet-measured face.



What woman hugs her infant there?
Another star has shot an ear.
What made the drapery glisten so?
Not a man but Delacroix.
What made the ceiling waterproof?
Landor's tarpaulin on the roof.
What brushes fly and moth aside?
Irving and his plume of pride.
What hurries out the knave and dolt?
Talma and his thunderbolt.
Why is the woman terror-struck?
Can there be mercy in that look?



Pardon, great enemy,
Without an angry thought
We've carried in our tree,
And here and there have bought
Till all the boughs are gay,
And she may look from the bed
On pretty things that may
Please a fantastic head.
Give her a little grace,
What if a laughing eye
Have looked into your face?
It is about to die.



    Cuchulain has killed kings,
    Kings and sons of kings,
    Dragons out of the water,
    And witches out of the air,
Banachas and Bonachas and people of the woods.
    Witches that steal the milk,
    Fomor that steal the children,
    Hags that have heads like hares,
    Hares that have claws like witches,
    All riding a-cock-horse
Out of the very bottom of the bitter black North.
    He has killed kings,
    Kings and the sons of kings,
    Dragons out of the water,
    And witches out of the air,
Banachas and Bonachas and people of the woods.



I did the dragon's will until you came
Because I had fancied love a casual
Improvisation, or a settled game
That followed if I let the kerchief fall:
Those deeds were best that gave the minute wings
And heavenly music if they gave it wit;
And then you stood among the dragon-rings.
I mocked, being crazy, but you mastered it
And broke the chain and set my ankles free,
Saint George or else a pagan Perseus;
And now we stare astonished at the sea,
And a miraculous strange bird shrieks at us.



Sang old Tom the lunatic
That sleeps under the canopy;
‘What change has put my thoughts astray
And eyes that had so keen a sight?
What has turned to smoking wick
Nature's pure unchanging light?
‘Huddon and Duddon and Daniel O'Leary,
Holy Joe, the beggar-man,
Wenching, drinking, still remain
Or sing a penance on the road;
Something made these eyeballs weary
That blinked and saw them in a shroud.
‘Whatever stands in field or flood,
Bird, beast, fish or man,
Mare or stallion, cock or hen,
Stands in God's unchanging eye
In all the vigour of its blood;
In that faith I live or die.’



Behold that great Plotinus swim
Buffeted by such seas;
Bland Rhadamanthus beckons him,
But the Golden Race looks dim,
Salt blood blocks his eyes.
Scattered on the level grass
Or winding through the grove
Plato there and Minos pass,
There stately Pythagoras
And all the choir of Love.



I hear the wind a-blow,
I hear the grass a-grow,
And all that I know, I know.



The friends that have it I do wrong
When ever I remake a song,
Should know what issue is at stake:
It is myself that I remake.



Accursed who brings to light of day
The writings I have cast away!
But blessed he that stirs them not
And lets the kind worm take the lot!



Now that we're almost settled in our house
I'll name the friends that cannot sup with us
Beside a fire of turf in th' ancient tower,
And having talked to some late hour
Climb up the narrow winding stair to bed:
Discoverers of forgotten truth
Or mere companions of my youth,
All, all are in my thoughts to-night being dead.
Always we'd have the new friend meet the old
And we are hurt if either friend seem cold,
And there is salt to lengthen out the smart
In the affections of our heart,
And quarrels are blown up upon that head;
But not a friend that I would bring
This night can set us quarrelling,
For all that come into my mind are dead.
Lionel Johnson comes the first to mind,
That loved his learning better than mankind,
Though courteous to the worst; much falling he
Brooded upon sanctity
Till all his Greek and Latin learning seemed
A long blast upon the horn that brought
A little nearer to his thought
A measureless consummation that he dreamed.
And that enquiring man John Synge comes next,
That dying chose the living world for text
And never could have rested in the tomb
But that, long travelling, he had come
Towards nightfall upon certain set apart
In a most desolate stony place,
Towards nightfall upon a race
Passionate and simple like his heart.
And then I think of old George Pollexfen,
In muscular youth well known to Mayo men
For horsemanship at meets or at racecourses,
That could have shown how pure-bred horses
And solid men, for all their passion, live
But as the outrageous stars incline
By opposition, square and trine;
Having grown sluggish and contemplative.
They were my close companions many a year,
A portion of my mind and life, as it were,
And now their breathless faces seem to look
Out of some old picture-book;
I am accustomed to their lack of breath,
But not that my dear friend's dear son,
Our Sidney and our perfect man,
Could share in that discourtesy of death.
For all things the delighted eye now sees
Were loved by him; the old storm-broken trees
That cast their shadows upon road and bridge;
The tower set on the stream's edge;
The ford where drinking cattle make a stir
Nightly, and startled by that sound
The water-hen must change her ground;
He might have been your heartiest welcomer.
When with the Galway foxhounds he would ride
From Castle Taylor to the Roxborough side
Or Esserkelly plain, few kept his pace;
At Mooneen he had leaped a place
So perilous that half the astonished meet
Had shut their eyes; and where was it
He rode a race without a bit?
And yet his mind outran the horses' feet.
We dreamed that a great painter had been born
To cold Clare rock and Galway rock and thorn,
To that stern colour and that delicate line
That are our secret discipline
Wherein the gazing heart doubles her might.
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
And yet he had the intensity
To have published all to be a world's delight.
What other could so well have counselled us
In all lovely intricacies of a house
As he that practised or that understood
All work in metal or in wood,
In moulded plaster or in carven stone?
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
And all he did done perfectly
As though he had but that one trade alone.
Some burn damp faggots, others may consume
The entire combustible world in one small room
As though dried straw, and if we turn about
The bare chimney is gone black out
Because the work had finished in that flare.
Soldier, scholar, horseman, he,
As 'twere all life's epitome.
What made us dream that he could comb grey hair?
I had thought, seeing how bitter is that wind
That shakes the shutter, to have brought to mind
All those that manhood tried, or childhood loved
Or boyish intellect approved,
With some appropriate commentary on each;
Until imagination brought
A fitter welcome; but a thought
Of that late death took all my heart for speech.



Afar from our lawn and our levée,
    O sister of sorrowful gaze!
Where the roses in scarlet are heavy
    And dream of the end of their days,
You move in another dominion
    And hang o'er the historied stone:
Unpruned is your beautiful pinion
    Who wander and whisper alone.
Come away while the moon's in the woodland,
    We'll dance and then feast in a dairy.
Though youngest of all in our good band,
    You are wasting away, little fairy.
Ah! cruel ones, leave me alone now
    While I murmur a little and ponder
The history here in the stone now;
    Then away and away will I wander,
And measure the minds of the flowers,
    And gaze on the meadow-mice wary,
And number their days and their hours—
You are wasting away, little fairy.
O shining ones, lightly with song pass,
    Ah! leave me, I pray you and beg.
My mother drew forth from the long grass
    A piece of a nightingale's egg,
And cradled me here where are sung,
    Of birds even, longings for aery
Wild wisdoms of spirit and tongue.
You are wasting away, little fairy.
Though tenderest roses were round you,
    The soul of the pitiless place
With pitiless magic has bound you—
    Ah! woe for the loss of your face,
And loss of your laugh and its lightness—
    Ah! woe for your wings and your head—
Ah! woe for your eyes and their brightness—
    Ah! woe for your slippers of red.
Come away while the moon's in the woodland,
    We'll dance and then feast in a dairy.
Though youngest of all in our good band,
    She is wasting away, little fairy.



A man came slowly from the setting sun,
To Emer, raddling raiment in her dun,
And said, ‘I am that swineherd whom you bid
Go watch the road between the wood and tide,
But now I have no need to watch it more.’
Then Emer cast the web upon the floor,
And raising arms all raddled with the dye,
Parted her lips with a loud sudden cry.
That swineherd stared upon her face and said,
‘No man alive, no man among the dead,
Has won the gold his cars of battle bring.’
‘But if your master comes home triumphing
Why must you blench and shake from foot to crown?’
Thereon he shook the more and cast him down
Upon the web-heaped floor, and cried his word:
‘With him is one sweet-throated like a bird.’
‘You dare me to my face,’ and thereupon
She smote with raddled fist, and where her son
Herded the cattle came with stumbling feet,
And cried with angry voice, ‘It is not meet
To idle life away, a common herd.’
‘I have long waited, mother, for that word:
But wherefore now?’
‘There is a man to die;
You have the heaviest arm under the sky.’
‘Whether under its daylight or its stars
My father stands amid his battle-cars.’
‘But you have grown to be the taller man.’
‘Yet somewhere under starlight or the sun
My father stands.’
‘Aged, worn out with wars
On foot, on horseback or in battle-cars.’
‘I only ask what way my journey lies,
For He who made you bitter made you wise.’
‘The Red Branch camp in a great company
Between wood's rim and the horses of the sea.
Go there, and light a camp-fire at wood's rim;
But tell your name and lineage to him
Whose blade compels, and wait till they have found
Some feasting man that the same oath has bound.’
Among those feasting men Cuchulain dwelt,
And his young sweetheart close beside him knelt,
Stared on the mournful wonder of his eyes,
Even as Spring upon the ancient skies,
And pondered on the glory of his days;
And all around the harp-string told his praise,
And Conchubar, the Red Branch king of kings,
With his own fingers touched the brazen strings.
At last Cuchulain spake, ‘Some man has made
His evening fire amid the leafy shade.
I have often heard him singing to and fro,
I have often heard the sweet sound of his bow.
Seek out what man he is.’
One went and came.
‘He bade me let all know he gives his name
At the sword-point, and waits till we have found
Some feasting man that the same oath has bound.’
Cuchulain cried, ‘I am the only man
Of all this host so bound from childhood on.’
After short fighting in the leafy shade,
He spake to the young man, ‘Is there no maid
Who loves you, no white arms to wrap you round,
Or do you long for the dim sleepy ground,
That you have come and dared me to my face?’
‘The dooms of men are in God's hidden place.’
‘Your head a while seemed like a woman's head
That I loved once.’
Again the fighting sped,
But now the war-rage in Cuchulain woke,
And through that new blade's guard the old blade broke,
And pierced him.
‘Speak before your breath is done.’
‘Cuchulain I, mighty Cuchulain's son.’
‘I put you from your pain. I can no more.’
While day its burden on to evening bore,
With head bowed on his knees Cuchulain stayed;
Then Conchubar sent that sweet-throated maid,
And she, to win him, his grey hair caressed;
In vain her arms, in vain her soft white breast.
Then Conchubar, the subtlest of all men,
Ranking his Druids round him ten by ten,
Spake thus: ‘Cuchulain will dwell there and brood
For three days more in dreadful quietude,
And then arise, and raving slay us all.
Chaunt in his ear delusions magical,
That he may fight the horses of the sea.’
The Druids took them to their mystery,
And chaunted for three days.
Cuchulain stirred,
Stared on the horses of the sea, and heard
The cars of battle and his own name cried;
And fought with the invulnerable tide.



Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
The tall thought-woven sails, that flap unfurled
Above the tide of hours, trouble the air,
And God's bell buoyed to be the water's care;
While hushed from fear, or loud with hope, a band
With blown, spray-dabbled hair gather at hand.
Turn if you may from battles never done,
I call, as they go by me one by one,
Danger no refuge holds, and war no peace,
For him who bears love sing and never cease,
Beside her clean-swept hearth, her quiet shade:
But gather all for whom no love hath made
A woven silence, or but came to cast
A song into the air, and singing passed
To smile on the pale dawn; and gather you
Who have sought more than is in rain or dew,
Or in the sun and moon, or on the earth,
Or sighs amid the wandering, starry mirth,
Or comes in laughter from the sea's sad lips,
And wage God's battles in the long grey ships.
The sad, the lonely, the insatiable,
To these Old Night shall all her mystery tell;
God's bell has claimed them by the little cry
Of their sad hearts, that may not live nor die.
Rose of all Roses, Rose of all the World!
You, too, have come where the dim tides are hurled
Upon the wharves of sorrow, and heard ring
The bell that calls us on; the sweet far thing.
Beauty grown sad with its eternity
Made you of us, and of the dim grey sea.
Our long ships loose thought-woven sails and wait,
For God has bid them share an equal fate;
And when at last, defeated in His wars,
They have gone down under the same white stars,
We shall no longer hear the little cry
Of our sad hearts, that may not live nor die.



A pity beyond all telling
Is hid in the heart of love:
The folk who are buying and selling,
The clouds on their journey above,
The cold wet winds ever blowing,
And the shadowy hazel grove
Where mouse-grey waters are flowing,
Threaten the head that I love.



Now all the truth. is out,
Be secret and take defeat
From any brazen throat,
For how can you compete,
Being honour bred, with one
Who, were it proved he lies,
Were neither shamed in his own
Nor in his neighbours' eyes?
Bred to a harder thing
Than Triumph, turn away
And like a laughing string
Whereon mad fingers play
Amid a place of stone,
Be secret and exult,
Because of all things known
That is most difficult.



Three old hermits took the air
By a cold and desolate sea,
First was muttering a prayer,
Second rummaged for a flea;
On a windy stone, the third,
Giddy with his hundredth year,
Sang unnoticed like a bird:
‘Though the Door of Death is near
And what waits behind the door,
Three times in a single day
I, though upright on the shore,
Fall asleep when I should pray.’
So the first, but now the second:
‘We're but given what we have earned
When all thoughts and deeds are reckoned,
So it's plain to be discerned
That the shades of holy men
Who have failed, being weak of will,
Pass the Door of Birth again,
And are plagued by crowds, until
They've the passion to escape.’
Moaned the other, ‘They are thrown
Into some most fearful shape.’
But the second mocked his moan:
‘They are not changed to anything,
Having loved God once, but maybe
To a poet or a king
Or a witty lovely lady.’
While he'd rummaged rags and hair,
Caught and cracked his flea, the third,
Giddy with his hundredth year,
Sang unnoticed like a bird.



We have cried in our despair
That men desert,
For some trivial affair
Or noisy, insolent sport,
Beauty that we have won
From bitterest hours;
Yet we, had we walked within
Those topless towers
Where Helen walked with her boy,
Had given but as the rest
Of the men and women of Troy,
A word and a jest.



They must to keep their certainty accuse
All that are different of a base intent;
Pull down established honour; hawk for news
Whatever their loose phantasy invent
And murmur it with bated breath, as though
The abounding gutter had been Helicon
Or calumny a song. How can they know
Truth flourishes where the student's lamp has shone,
And there alone, that have no solitude?
So the crowd come they care not what may come.
They have loud music, hope every day renewed
And heartier loves; that lamp is from the tomb.



For one throb of the artery,
While on that old grey stone I sat
Under the old wind-broken tree,
I knew that One is animate,
Mankind inanimate phantasy.



For certain minutes at the least
That crafty demon and that loud beast
That plague me day and night
Ran out of my sight;
Though I had long perned in the gyre,
Between my hatred and desire,
I saw my freedom won
And all laugh in the sun.
The glittering eyes in a death's head
Of old Luke Wadding's portrait said
Welcome, and the Ormondes all
Nodded upon the wall,
And even Strafford smiled as though
It made him happier to know
I understood his plan.
Now that the loud beast ran
There was no portrait in the Gallery
But beckoned to sweet company,
For all men's thoughts grew clear
Being dear as mine are dear.
But soon a tear-drop started up,
For aimless joy had made me stop
Beside the little lake
To watch a white gull take
A bit of bread thrown up into the air;
Now gyring down and perning there
He splashed where an absurd
Portly green-pated bird
Shook off the water from his back;
Being no more demoniac
A stupid happy creature
Could rouse my whole nature.
Yet I am certain as can be
That every natural victory
Belongs to beast or demon,
That never yet had freeman
Right mastery of natural things,
And that mere growing old, that brings
Chilled blood, this sweetness brought;
Yet have no dearer thought
Than that I may find out a way
To make it linger half a day.
O what a sweetness strayed
Through barren Thebaid,
Or by the Mareotic sea
When that exultant Anthony
And twice a thousand more
Starved upon the shore
And withered to a bag of bones!
What had the Caesars but their thrones?



Toil and grow rich,
What's that but to lie
With a foul witch
And after, drained dry,
To be brought
To the chamber where
Lies one long sought
With despair?



Although crowds gathered once if she but showed her face,
And even old men's eyes grew dim, this hand alone,
Like some last courtier at a gypsy camping-place
Babbling of fallen majesty, records what's gone.
The lineaments, a heart that laughter has made sweet,
These, these remain, but I record what's gone. A crowd
Will gather, and not know it walks the very street
Whereon a thing once walked that seemed a burning cloud.



Come praise Colonus' horses, and come praise
The wine-dark of the wood's intricacies,
The nightingale that deafens daylight there,
If daylight ever visit where,
Unvisited by tempest or by sun,
Immortal ladies tread the ground
Dizzy with harmonious sound,
Semele's lad a gay companion.
And yonder in the gymnasts' garden thrives
The self-sown, self-begotten shape that gives
Athenian intellect its mastery,
Even the grey-leaved olive-tree
Miracle-bred out of the living stone;
Nor accident of peace nor war
Shall wither that old marvel, for
The great grey-eyed Athena stares thereon.
Who comes into this country, and has come
Where golden crocus and narcissus bloom,
Where the Great Mother, mourning for her daughter
And beauty-drunken by the water
Glittering among grey-leaved olive-trees,
Has plucked a flower and sung her loss;
Who finds abounding Cephisus
Has found the loveliest spectacle there is.
Because this country has a pious mind
And so remembers that when all mankind
But trod the road, or splashed about the shore,
Poseidon gave it bit and oar,
Every Colonus lad or lass discourses
Of that oar and of that bit;
Summer and winter, day and night,
Of horses and horses of the sea, white horses.
Come praise Colonus' horses, and come praise
The wine-dark of the wood's intricacies,
The nightingale that deafens daylight there,
If daylight ever visit where,
Unvisited by tempest or by sun,
Immortal ladies tread the ground
Dizzy with harmonious sound,
Semele's lad a gay companion.
And yonder in the gymnasts' garden thrives
The self-sown, self-begotten shape that gives
Athenian intellect its mastery,
Even the grey-leaved olive-tree
Miracle-bred out of the living stone;
Nor accident of peace nor war
Shall wither that old marvel, for
The great grey-eyed Athena stares thereon.
Who comes into this country, and has come
Where golden crocus and narcissus bloom,
Where the Great Mother, mourning for her daughter
And beauty-drunken by the water
Glittering among grey-leaved olive-trees,
Has plucked a flower and sung her loss;
Who finds abounding Cephisus
Has found the loveliest spectacle there is.
Because this country has a pious mind
And so remembers that when all mankind
But trod the road, or splashed about the shore,
Poseidon gave it bit and oar,
Every Colonus lad or lass discourses
Of that oar and of that bit;
Summer and winter, day and night,
Of horses and horses of the sea, white horses.



The old brown thorn-trees break in two high over Cummen Strand,
Under a bitter black wind that blows from the left hand;
Our courage breaks like an old tree in a black wind and dies,
But we have hidden in our hearts the flame out of the eyes
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The wind has bundled up the clouds high over Knocknarea,
And thrown the thunder on the stones for all that Maeve can say.
Angers that are like noisy clouds have set our hearts abeat;
But we have all bent low and low and kissed the quiet feet
Of Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.
The yellow pool has overflowed high up on Clooth-na-Bare,
For the wet winds are blowing out of the clinging air;
Like heavy flooded waters our bodies and our blood;
But purer than a tall candle before the Holy Rood
Is Cathleen, the daughter of Houlihan.



I cried when the moon was murmuring to the birds:
‘Let peewit call and curlew cry where they will,
I long for your merry and tender and pitiful words,
For the roads are unending, and there is no place to my mind.’
The honey-pale moon lay low on the sleepy hill,
And I fell asleep upon lonely Echtge of streams.
No boughs have withered because of the wintry wind;
The boughs have withered because I have told them my dreams.
I know of the leafy paths that the witches take
Who come with their crowns of pearl and their spindles of wool,
And their secret smile, out of the depths of the lake;
I know where a dim moon drifts, where the Danaan kind
Wind and unwind dancing when the light grows cool
On the island lawns, their feet where the pale foam gleams.
No boughs have withered because of the wintry wind;
The boughs have withered because I have told them my dreams.
I know of the sleepy country, where swans fly round
Coupled with golden chains, and sing as they fly.
A king and a queen are wandering there, and the sound
Has made them so happy and hopeless, so deaf and so blind
With wisdom, they wander till all the years have gone by;
I know, and the curlew and peewit on Echtge of streams.
No boughs have withered because of the wintry wind;
The boughs have withered because I have told them my dreams.



Hands, do what you're bid:
Bring the balloon of the mind
That bellies and drags in the wind
Into its narrow shed.



There is a queen in China, or maybe it's in Spain,
And birthdays and holidays such praises can be heard
Of her unblemished lineaments, a whiteness with no stain,
That she might be that sprightly girl trodden by a bird;
And there's a score of duchesses, surpassing womankind,
Or who have found a painter to make them so for pay
And smooth out stain and blemish with the elegance of his mind:
I knew a phoenix in my youth, so let them have their day.
The young men every night applaud their Gaby's laughing eye,
And Ruth St. Denis had more charm although she had poor luck;
From nineteen hundred nine or ten, Pavlova's had the cry,
And there's a player in the States who gathers up her cloak
And flings herself out of the room when Juliet would be bride
With all a woman's passion, a child's imperious way,
And there are—but no matter if there are scores beside:
I knew a phoenix in my youth, so let them have their day.
There's Margaret and Marjorie and Dorothy and Nan,
A Daphne and a Mary who live in privacy;
One's had her fill of lovers, another's had but one,
Another boasts, ‘I pick and choose and have but two or three.’
If head and limb have beauty and the instep's high and light
They can spread out what sail they please for all I have to say,
Be but the breakers of men's hearts or engines of delight:
I knew a phoenix in my youth, so let them have their day.
There'll be that crowd, that barbarous crowd, through all the centuries,
And who can say but some young belle may walk and talk men wild
Who is my beauty's equal, though that my heart denies,
But not the exact likeness, the simplicity of a child,
And that proud look as though she had gazed into the burning sun,
And all the shapely body no tittle gone astray.
I mourn for that most lonely thing; and yet God's will be done:
I knew a phoenix in my youth, so let them have their day.



If any man drew near
When I was young,
I thought, ‘He holds her dear,’
And shook with hate and fear.
But O! 'twas bitter wrong
If he could pass her by
With an indifferent eye.
Whereon I wrote and wrought,
And now, being grey,
I dream that I have brought
To such a pitch my thought
That coming time can say,
‘He shadowed in a glass
What thing her body was.’
For she had fiery blood
When I was young,
And trod so sweetly proud
As 'twere upon a cloud,
A woman Homer sung,
That life and letters seem
But an heroic dream.



Why should I blame her that she filled my days
With misery, or that she would of late
Have taught to ignorant men most violent ways,
Or hurled the little streets upon the great,
Had they but courage equal to desire?
What could have made her peaceful with a mind
That nobleness made simple as a fire,
With beauty like a tightened bow, a kind
That is not natural in an age like this,
Being high and solitary and most stern?
Why, what could she have done, being what she is?
Was there another Troy for her to burn?



You who are bent, and bald, and blind,
With a heavy heart and a wandering mind,
Have known three centuries, poets sing,
Of dalliance with a demon thing.
Sad to remember, sick with years,
The swift innumerable spears,
The horsemen with their floating hair,
And bowls of barley, honey, and wine,
Those merry couples dancing in tune,
And the white body that lay by mine;
But the tale, though words be lighter than air,
Must live to be old like the wandering moon.
Caoilte, and Conan, and Finn were there,
When we followed a deer with our baying hounds,
With Bran, Sceolan, and Lomair,
And passing the Firbolgs' burial-mounds,
Came to the cairn-heaped grassy hill
Where passionate Maeve is stony-still;
And found on the dove-grey edge of the sea
A pearl-pale, high-born lady, who rode
On a horse with bridle of findrinny;
And like a sunset were her lips,
A stormy sunset on doomed ships;
A citron colour gloomed in her hair,
But down to her feet white vesture flowed,
And with the glimmering crimson glowed
Of many a figured embroidery;
And it was bound with a pearl-pale shell
That wavered like the summer streams,
As her soft bosom rose and fell.
Sad to remember, sick with years,
The swift innumerable spears,
The horsemen with their floating hair,
And bowls of barley, honey, and wine,
Those merry couples dancing in tune,
And the white body that lay by mine;
But the tale, though words be lighter than air,
Must live to be old like the wandering moon.
Caoilte, and Conan, and Finn were there,
When we followed a deer with our baying hounds,
With Bran, Sceolan, and Lomair,
And passing the Firbolgs' burial-mounds,
Came to the cairn-heaped grassy hill
Where passionate Maeve is stony-still;
And found on the dove-grey edge of the sea
A pearl-pale, high-born lady, who rode
On a horse with bridle of findrinny;
And like a sunset were her lips,
A stormy sunset on doomed ships;
A citron colour gloomed in her hair,
But down to her feet white vesture flowed,
And with the glimmering crimson glowed
Of many a figured embroidery;
And it was bound with a pearl-pale shell
That wavered like the summer streams,
As her soft bosom rose and fell.
You are still wrecked among heathen dreams.
‘Why do you wind no horn?’ she said.
‘And every hero droop his head?
The hornless deer is not more sad
That many a peaceful moment had,
More sleek than any granary mouse,
In his own leafy forest house
Among the waving fields of fern:
The hunting of heroes should be glad.’
‘O pleasant woman,’ answered Finn,
‘We think on Oscar's pencilled urn,
And on the heroes lying slains
On Gabhra's raven-covered plain;
But where are your noble kith and kin,
And from what country do you ride?’
‘My father and my mother are
Aengus and Edain, my own name
Niamh, and my country far
Beyond the tumbling of this tide.’
‘What dream came with you that you came
Through bitter tide on foam-wet feet?
Did your companion wander away
From where the birds of Aengus wing?’
Thereon did she look haughty and sweet:
‘I have not yet, war-weary king,
Been spoken of with any man;
Yet now I choose, for these four feet
Ran through the foam and ran to this
That I might have your son to kiss.’
‘Were there no better than my son
That you through all that foam should run?’
‘I loved no man, though kings besought,
Until the Danaan poets brought
Rhyme that rhymed upon Oisin's name,
And now I am dizzy with the thought
Of all that wisdom and the fame
Of battles broken by his hands,
Of stories builded by his words
That are like coloured Asian birds
At evening in their rainless lands.’
O Patrick, by your brazen bell,
There was no limb of mine but fell
Into a desperate gulph of love!
‘You only will I wed,’ I cried,
‘And I will make a thousand songs,
And set your name all names above,
And captives bound with leathern thongs
Shall kneel and praise you, one by one,
At evening in my western dun.’
‘O Oisin, mount by me and ride
To shores by the wash of the tremulous tide,
Where men have heaped no burial-mounds,
And the days pass by like a wayward tune,
Where broken faith has never been known,
And the blushes of first love never have flown;
And there I will give you a hundred hounds;
No mightier creatures bay at the moon;
And a hundred robes of murmuring silk,
And a hundred calves and a hundred sheep
Whose long wool whiter than sea-froth flows,
And a hundred spears and a hundred bows,
And oil and wine and honey and milk,
And always never-anxious sleep;
While a hundred youths, mighty of limb,
But knowing nor tumult nor hate nor strife,
And a hundred ladies, merry as birds,
Who when they dance to a fitful measure
Have a speed like the speed of the salmon herds,
Shall follow your horn and obey your whim,
And you shall know the Danaan leisure;
And Niamh be with you for a wife.’
Then she sighed gently, ‘It grows late.
Music and love and sleep await,
Where I would be when the white moon climbs,
The red sun falls and the world grows dim.’
And then I mounted and she bound me
With her triumphing arms around me,
And whispering to herself enwound me;
But when the horse had felt my weight,
He shook himself and neighed three times:
Caoilte, Conan, and Finn came near,
And wept, and raised their lamenting hands,
And bid me stay, with many a tear;
But we rode out from the human lands.
In what far kingdom do you go,
Ah, Fenians, with the shield and bow?
Or are you phantoms white as snow,
Whose lips had life's most prosperous glow?
O you, with whom in sloping valleys,
Or down the dewy forest alleys,
I chased at morn the flying deer,
With whom I hurled the hurrying spear,
And heard the foemen's bucklers rattle,
And broke the heaving ranks of battle!
And Bran, Sceolan, and Lomair,
Where are you with your long rough hair?
You go not where the red deer feeds,
Nor tear the foemen from their steeds.
‘Why do you wind no horn?’ she said.
‘And every hero droop his head?
The hornless deer is not more sad
That many a peaceful moment had,
More sleek than any granary mouse,
In his own leafy forest house
Among the waving fields of fern:
The hunting of heroes should be glad.’
‘O pleasant woman,’ answered Finn,
‘We think on Oscar's pencilled urn,
And on the heroes lying slains
On Gabhra's raven-covered plain;
But where are your noble kith and kin,
And from what country do you ride?’
‘My father and my mother are
Aengus and Edain, my own name
Niamh, and my country far
Beyond the tumbling of this tide.’
‘What dream came with you that you came
Through bitter tide on foam-wet feet?
Did your companion wander away
From where the birds of Aengus wing?’
Thereon did she look haughty and sweet:
‘I have not yet, war-weary king,
Been spoken of with any man;
Yet now I choose, for these four feet
Ran through the foam and ran to this
That I might have your son to kiss.’
‘Were there no better than my son
That you through all that foam should run?’
‘I loved no man, though kings besought,
Until the Danaan poets brought
Rhyme that rhymed upon Oisin's name,
And now I am dizzy with the thought
Of all that wisdom and the fame
Of battles broken by his hands,
Of stories builded by his words
That are like coloured Asian birds
At evening in their rainless lands.’
O Patrick, by your brazen bell,
There was no limb of mine but fell
Into a desperate gulph of love!
‘You only will I wed,’ I cried,
‘And I will make a thousand songs,
And set your name all names above,
And captives bound with leathern thongs
Shall kneel and praise you, one by one,
At evening in my western dun.’
‘O Oisin, mount by me and ride
To shores by the wash of the tremulous tide,
Where men have heaped no burial-mounds,
And the days pass by like a wayward tune,
Where broken faith has never been known,
And the blushes of first love never have flown;
And there I will give you a hundred hounds;
No mightier creatures bay at the moon;
And a hundred robes of murmuring silk,
And a hundred calves and a hundred sheep
Whose long wool whiter than sea-froth flows,
And a hundred spears and a hundred bows,
And oil and wine and honey and milk,
And always never-anxious sleep;
While a hundred youths, mighty of limb,
But knowing nor tumult nor hate nor strife,
And a hundred ladies, merry as birds,
Who when they dance to a fitful measure
Have a speed like the speed of the salmon herds,
Shall follow your horn and obey your whim,
And you shall know the Danaan leisure;
And Niamh be with you for a wife.’
Then she sighed gently, ‘It grows late.
Music and love and sleep await,
Where I would be when the white moon climbs,
The red sun falls and the world grows dim.’
And then I mounted and she bound me
With her triumphing arms around me,
And whispering to herself enwound me;
But when the horse had felt my weight,
He shook himself and neighed three times:
Caoilte, Conan, and Finn came near,
And wept, and raised their lamenting hands,
And bid me stay, with many a tear;
But we rode out from the human lands.
In what far kingdom do you go,
Ah, Fenians, with the shield and bow?
Or are you phantoms white as snow,
Whose lips had life's most prosperous glow?
O you, with whom in sloping valleys,
Or down the dewy forest alleys,
I chased at morn the flying deer,
With whom I hurled the hurrying spear,
And heard the foemen's bucklers rattle,
And broke the heaving ranks of battle!
And Bran, Sceolan, and Lomair,
Where are you with your long rough hair?
You go not where the red deer feeds,
Nor tear the foemen from their steeds.
Boast not, nor mourn with drooping head
Companions long accurst and dead,
And hounds for centuries dust and air.
We gallope over the glossy sea:
I know not if days passed or hours,
And Niamh sang continually
Danaan songs, and their dewy showers
Of pensive laughter, unhuman sound,
Lulled weariness, and softly round
My human sorrow her white arms wound.
We galloped; now a hornless deer
Passed by us, chased by a phantom hound
All pearly white, save one red ear;
And now a lady rode like the wind
With an apple of gold in her tossing hand;
And a beautiful young man followed behind
With quenchless gaze and fluttering hair.
‘Were these two born in the Danaan land,
Or have they breathed the mortal air?’
‘Vex them no longer,’ Niamh said,
And sighing bowed her gentle head,
And sighing laid the pearly tip
Of one long finger on my lip.
But now the moon like a white rose shone
In the pale west, and the sun's rim sank,
And clouds arrayed their rank on rank
About his fading crimson ball:
The floor of Almhuin's hosting hall
Was not more level than the sea,
As, full of loving fantasy,
And with low murmurs, we rode on,
Where many a trumpet-twisted shell
That in immortal silence sleeps
Dreaming of her own melting hues,
Her golds, her ambers, and her blues,
Pierced with soft light the shallowing deeps.
But now a wandering land breeze came
And a far sound of feathery quires;
It seemed to blow from the dying flame,
They seemed to sing in the smouldering fires.
The horse towards the music raced,
Neighing along the lifeless waste;
Like sooty fingers, many a tree
Rose ever out of the warm sea;
And they were trembling ceaselessly,
As though they all were beating time,
Upon the centre of the sun,
To that low laughing woodland rhyme.
And, now our wandering hours were done,
We cantered to the shore, and knew
The reason of the trembling trees:
Round every branch the song-birds flew,
Or clung thereon like swarming bees;
While round the shore a million stood
Like drops of frozen rainbow light,
And pondered in a soft vain mood
Upon their shadows in the tide,
And told the purple deeps their pride,
And murmured snatches of delight;
And on the shores were many boats
With bending sterns and bending bows,
And carven figures on their prows
Of bitterns, and fish-eating stoats,
And swans with their exultant throats:
And where the wood and waters meet
We tied the horse in a leafy clump,
And Niamh blew three merry notes
Out of a little silver trump;
And then an answering whispering flew
Over the bare and woody land,
A whisper of impetuous feet,
And ever nearer, nearer grew;
And from the woods rushed out a band
Of men and ladies, hand in hand,
And singing, singing all together;
Their brows were white as fragrant milk,
Their cloaks made out of yellow silk,
And trimmed with many a crimson feather;
And when they saw the cloak I wore
Was dim with mire of a mortal shore,
They fingered it and gazed on me
And laughed like murmurs of the sea;
But Niamh with a swift distress
Bid them away and hold their peace;
And when they heard her voice they ran
And knelt there, every girl and man,
And kissed, as they would never cease,
Her pearl-pale hand and the hem of her dress.
She bade them bring us to the hall
Where Aengus dreams, from sun to sun,
A Druid dream of the end of days
When the stars are to wane and the world be done.
They led us by long and shadowy ways
Where drops of dew in myriads fall,
And tangled creepers every hour
Blossom in some new crimson flower,
And once a sudden laughter sprang
From all their lips, and once they sang
Together, while the dark woods rang,
And made in all their distant parts,
With boom of bees in honey-marts,
A rumour of delighted hearts,
And once a lady by my side
Gave me a harp, and bid me sing,
And touch the laughing silver string;
But when I sang of human joy
A sorrow wrapped each merry face,
And, Patrick! by your beard, they wept,
Until one came, a tearful boy;
‘A sadder creature never stept
Than this strange human bard,’ he cried;
And caught the silver harp away,
And, weeping over the white strings, hurled
It down in a leaf-hid, hollow place
That kept dim waters from the sky;
And each one said, with a long, long sigh,
‘O saddest harp in all the world,
Sleep there till the moon and the stars die!’
And now, still sad, we came to where
A beautiful young man dreamed within
A house of wattles, clay, and skin;
One hand upheld his beardless chin,
And one a sceptre flashing out
Wild flames of red and gold and blue,
Like to a merry wandering rout
Of dancers leaping in the air;
And men and ladies knelt them there
And showed their eyes with teardrops dim,
And with low murmurs prayed to him,
And kissed the sceptre with red lips,
And touched it with their finger-tips.
He held that flashing sceptre up.
‘Joy drowns the twilight in the dew,
And fills with stars night's purple cup,
And wakes the sluggard seeds of corn,
And stirs the young kid's budding horn,
And makes the infant ferns unwrap,
And for the peewit paints his cap,
And rolls along the unwieldy sun,
And makes the little planets run:
And if joy were not on the earth,
There were an end of change and birth,
And Earth and Heaven and Hell would die,
And in some gloomy barrow lie
Folded like a frozen fly;
Then mock at Death and Time with glances
And wavering arms and wandering dances.
‘Men's hearts of old were drops of flame
That from the saffron morning came,
Or drops of silver joy that fell
Out of the moon's pale twisted shell;
But now hearts cry that hearts are slaves,
And toss and turn in narrow caves;
But here there is nor law nor rule,
Nor have hands held a weary tool;
And here there is nor Change nor Death,
But only kind and merry breath,
For joy is God and God is joy.’
With one long glance for girl and boy
And the pale blossom of the moon,
He fell into a Druid swoon.
And in a wild and sudden dance
We mocked at Time and Fate and Chance
And swept out of the wattled hall
And came to where the dewdrops fall
Among the foamdrops of the sea,
And there we hushed the revelry;
And, gathering on our brows a frown,
Bent all our swaying bodies down,
And to the waves that glimmer by
That sloping green De Danaan sod
Sang, ‘God is joy and joy is God,
And things that have grown sad are wicked,
And things that fear the dawn of the morrow
Or the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
We danced to where in the winding thicket
The damask roses, bloom on bloom,
Like crimson meteors hang in the gloom,
And bending over them softly said,
Bending over them in the dance,
With a swift and friendly glance
From dewy eyes: ‘Upon the dead
Fall the leaves of other roses,
On the dead dim earth encloses:
But never, never on our graves,
Heaped beside the glimmering waves,
Shall fall the leaves of damask roses.
For neither Death nor Change comes near us,
And all listless hours fear us,
And we fear no dawning morrow,
Nor the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
The dance wound through the windless woods;
The ever-summered solitudes;
Until the tossing arms grew still
Upon the woody central hill;
And, gathered in a panting band,
We flung on high each waving hand,
And sang unto the starry broods.
In our raised eyes there flashed a glow
Of milky brightness to and fro
As thus our song arose: ‘You stars,
Across your wandering ruby cars
Shake the loose reins: you slaves of God,
He rules you with an iron rod,
He holds you with an iron bond,
Each one woven to the other,
Each one woven to his brother
Like bubbles in a frozen pond;
But we in a lonely land abide
Unchainable as the dim tide,
With hearts that know nor law nor rule,
And hands that hold no wearisome tool,
Folded in love that fears no morrow,
Nor the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
O Patrick! for a hundred years
I chased upon that woody shore
The deer, the badger, and the boar.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
At evening on the glimmering sands,
Beside the piled-up hunting spears,
These now outworn and withered hands
Wrestled among the island bands.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
We went a-fishing in long boats
With bending sterns and bending bows,
And carven figures on their prows
Of bitterns and fish-eating stoats.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
The gentle Niamh was my wife;
But now two things devour my life;
The things that most of all I hate:
Fasting and prayers.
We gallope over the glossy sea:
I know not if days passed or hours,
And Niamh sang continually
Danaan songs, and their dewy showers
Of pensive laughter, unhuman sound,
Lulled weariness, and softly round
My human sorrow her white arms wound.
We galloped; now a hornless deer
Passed by us, chased by a phantom hound
All pearly white, save one red ear;
And now a lady rode like the wind
With an apple of gold in her tossing hand;
And a beautiful young man followed behind
With quenchless gaze and fluttering hair.
‘Were these two born in the Danaan land,
Or have they breathed the mortal air?’
‘Vex them no longer,’ Niamh said,
And sighing bowed her gentle head,
And sighing laid the pearly tip
Of one long finger on my lip.
But now the moon like a white rose shone
In the pale west, and the sun's rim sank,
And clouds arrayed their rank on rank
About his fading crimson ball:
The floor of Almhuin's hosting hall
Was not more level than the sea,
As, full of loving fantasy,
And with low murmurs, we rode on,
Where many a trumpet-twisted shell
That in immortal silence sleeps
Dreaming of her own melting hues,
Her golds, her ambers, and her blues,
Pierced with soft light the shallowing deeps.
But now a wandering land breeze came
And a far sound of feathery quires;
It seemed to blow from the dying flame,
They seemed to sing in the smouldering fires.
The horse towards the music raced,
Neighing along the lifeless waste;
Like sooty fingers, many a tree
Rose ever out of the warm sea;
And they were trembling ceaselessly,
As though they all were beating time,
Upon the centre of the sun,
To that low laughing woodland rhyme.
And, now our wandering hours were done,
We cantered to the shore, and knew
The reason of the trembling trees:
Round every branch the song-birds flew,
Or clung thereon like swarming bees;
While round the shore a million stood
Like drops of frozen rainbow light,
And pondered in a soft vain mood
Upon their shadows in the tide,
And told the purple deeps their pride,
And murmured snatches of delight;
And on the shores were many boats
With bending sterns and bending bows,
And carven figures on their prows
Of bitterns, and fish-eating stoats,
And swans with their exultant throats:
And where the wood and waters meet
We tied the horse in a leafy clump,
And Niamh blew three merry notes
Out of a little silver trump;
And then an answering whispering flew
Over the bare and woody land,
A whisper of impetuous feet,
And ever nearer, nearer grew;
And from the woods rushed out a band
Of men and ladies, hand in hand,
And singing, singing all together;
Their brows were white as fragrant milk,
Their cloaks made out of yellow silk,
And trimmed with many a crimson feather;
And when they saw the cloak I wore
Was dim with mire of a mortal shore,
They fingered it and gazed on me
And laughed like murmurs of the sea;
But Niamh with a swift distress
Bid them away and hold their peace;
And when they heard her voice they ran
And knelt there, every girl and man,
And kissed, as they would never cease,
Her pearl-pale hand and the hem of her dress.
She bade them bring us to the hall
Where Aengus dreams, from sun to sun,
A Druid dream of the end of days
When the stars are to wane and the world be done.
They led us by long and shadowy ways
Where drops of dew in myriads fall,
And tangled creepers every hour
Blossom in some new crimson flower,
And once a sudden laughter sprang
From all their lips, and once they sang
Together, while the dark woods rang,
And made in all their distant parts,
With boom of bees in honey-marts,
A rumour of delighted hearts,
And once a lady by my side
Gave me a harp, and bid me sing,
And touch the laughing silver string;
But when I sang of human joy
A sorrow wrapped each merry face,
And, Patrick! by your beard, they wept,
Until one came, a tearful boy;
‘A sadder creature never stept
Than this strange human bard,’ he cried;
And caught the silver harp away,
And, weeping over the white strings, hurled
It down in a leaf-hid, hollow place
That kept dim waters from the sky;
And each one said, with a long, long sigh,
‘O saddest harp in all the world,
Sleep there till the moon and the stars die!’
And now, still sad, we came to where
A beautiful young man dreamed within
A house of wattles, clay, and skin;
One hand upheld his beardless chin,
And one a sceptre flashing out
Wild flames of red and gold and blue,
Like to a merry wandering rout
Of dancers leaping in the air;
And men and ladies knelt them there
And showed their eyes with teardrops dim,
And with low murmurs prayed to him,
And kissed the sceptre with red lips,
And touched it with their finger-tips.
He held that flashing sceptre up.
‘Joy drowns the twilight in the dew,
And fills with stars night's purple cup,
And wakes the sluggard seeds of corn,
And stirs the young kid's budding horn,
And makes the infant ferns unwrap,
And for the peewit paints his cap,
And rolls along the unwieldy sun,
And makes the little planets run:
And if joy were not on the earth,
There were an end of change and birth,
And Earth and Heaven and Hell would die,
And in some gloomy barrow lie
Folded like a frozen fly;
Then mock at Death and Time with glances
And wavering arms and wandering dances.
‘Men's hearts of old were drops of flame
That from the saffron morning came,
Or drops of silver joy that fell
Out of the moon's pale twisted shell;
But now hearts cry that hearts are slaves,
And toss and turn in narrow caves;
But here there is nor law nor rule,
Nor have hands held a weary tool;
And here there is nor Change nor Death,
But only kind and merry breath,
For joy is God and God is joy.’
With one long glance for girl and boy
And the pale blossom of the moon,
He fell into a Druid swoon.
And in a wild and sudden dance
We mocked at Time and Fate and Chance
And swept out of the wattled hall
And came to where the dewdrops fall
Among the foamdrops of the sea,
And there we hushed the revelry;
And, gathering on our brows a frown,
Bent all our swaying bodies down,
And to the waves that glimmer by
That sloping green De Danaan sod
Sang, ‘God is joy and joy is God,
And things that have grown sad are wicked,
And things that fear the dawn of the morrow
Or the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
We danced to where in the winding thicket
The damask roses, bloom on bloom,
Like crimson meteors hang in the gloom,
And bending over them softly said,
Bending over them in the dance,
With a swift and friendly glance
From dewy eyes: ‘Upon the dead
Fall the leaves of other roses,
On the dead dim earth encloses:
But never, never on our graves,
Heaped beside the glimmering waves,
Shall fall the leaves of damask roses.
For neither Death nor Change comes near us,
And all listless hours fear us,
And we fear no dawning morrow,
Nor the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
The dance wound through the windless woods;
The ever-summered solitudes;
Until the tossing arms grew still
Upon the woody central hill;
And, gathered in a panting band,
We flung on high each waving hand,
And sang unto the starry broods.
In our raised eyes there flashed a glow
Of milky brightness to and fro
As thus our song arose: ‘You stars,
Across your wandering ruby cars
Shake the loose reins: you slaves of God,
He rules you with an iron rod,
He holds you with an iron bond,
Each one woven to the other,
Each one woven to his brother
Like bubbles in a frozen pond;
But we in a lonely land abide
Unchainable as the dim tide,
With hearts that know nor law nor rule,
And hands that hold no wearisome tool,
Folded in love that fears no morrow,
Nor the grey wandering osprey Sorrow.’
O Patrick! for a hundred years
I chased upon that woody shore
The deer, the badger, and the boar.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
At evening on the glimmering sands,
Beside the piled-up hunting spears,
These now outworn and withered hands
Wrestled among the island bands.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
We went a-fishing in long boats
With bending sterns and bending bows,
And carven figures on their prows
Of bitterns and fish-eating stoats.
O Patrick! for a hundred years
The gentle Niamh was my wife;
But now two things devour my life;
The things that most of all I hate:
Fasting and prayers.
Tell on.
Yes, yes,
For these were ancient Oisin's fate
Loosed long ago from Heaven's gate,
For his last days to lie in wait.
When one day by the tide I stood,
I found in that forgetfulness
Of dreamy foam a staff of wood
From some dead warrior's broken lance:
I turned it in my hands; the stains
Of war were on it, and I wept,
Remembering how the Fenians stept
Along the blood-bedabbled plains,
Equal to good or grievous chance:
Thereon young Niamh softly came
And caught my hands, but spake no word
Save only many times my name,
In murmurs, like a frighted bird.
We passed by woods, and lawns of clover,
And found the horse and bridled him,
For we knew well the old was over.
I heard one say, ‘His eyes grow dim
With all the ancient sorrow of men’;
And wrapped in dreams rode out again
With hoofs of the pale findrinny
Over the glimmering purple sea.
Under the golden evening light,
The Immortals moved among the fountains
By rivers and the woods' old night;
Some danced like shadows on the mountains,
Some wandered ever hand in hand;
Or sat in dreams on the pale strand,
Each forehead like an obscure star
Bent down above each hookèd knee,
And sang, and with a dreamy gaze
Watched where the sun in a saffron blaze
Was slumbering half in the sea-ways;
And, as they sang, the painted birds
Kept time with their bright wings and feet;
Like drops of honey came their words,
But fainter than a young lamb's bleat.
‘An old man stirs the fire to a blaze,
In the house of a child, of a friend, of a brother.
He has over-lingered his welcome; the days,
Grown desolate, whisper and sigh to each other;
He hears the storm in the chimney above,
And bends to the fire and shakes with the cold,
While his heart still dreams of battle and love,
And the cry of the hounds on the hills of old.
‘But we are apart in the grassy places,
Where care cannot trouble the least of our days,
Or the softness of youth be gone from our faces,
Or love's first tenderness die in our gaze.
The hare grows old as she plays in the sun
And gazes around her with eyes of brightness;
Before the swift things that she dreamed of were done
She limps along in an aged whiteness;
A storm of birds in the Asian trees
Like tulips in the air a-winging,
And the gentle waves of the summer seas,
That raise their heads and wander singing,
Must murmur at last, “Unjust, unjust”;
And “My speed is a weariness,” falters the mouse,
And the kingfisher turns to a ball of dust,
And the roof falls in of his tunnelled house.
But the love-dew dims our eyes till the day
When God shall come from the sea with a sigh
And bid the stars drop down from the sky,
And the moon like a pale rose wither away.’
Yes, yes,
For these were ancient Oisin's fate
Loosed long ago from Heaven's gate,
For his last days to lie in wait.
When one day by the tide I stood,
I found in that forgetfulness
Of dreamy foam a staff of wood
From some dead warrior's broken lance:
I turned it in my hands; the stains
Of war were on it, and I wept,
Remembering how the Fenians stept
Along the blood-bedabbled plains,
Equal to good or grievous chance:
Thereon young Niamh softly came
And caught my hands, but spake no word
Save only many times my name,
In murmurs, like a frighted bird.
We passed by woods, and lawns of clover,
And found the horse and bridled him,
For we knew well the old was over.
I heard one say, ‘His eyes grow dim
With all the ancient sorrow of men’;
And wrapped in dreams rode out again
With hoofs of the pale findrinny
Over the glimmering purple sea.
Under the golden evening light,
The Immortals moved among the fountains
By rivers and the woods' old night;
Some danced like shadows on the mountains,
Some wandered ever hand in hand;
Or sat in dreams on the pale strand,
Each forehead like an obscure star
Bent down above each hookèd knee,
And sang, and with a dreamy gaze
Watched where the sun in a saffron blaze
Was slumbering half in the sea-ways;
And, as they sang, the painted birds
Kept time with their bright wings and feet;
Like drops of honey came their words,
But fainter than a young lamb's bleat.
‘An old man stirs the fire to a blaze,
In the house of a child, of a friend, of a brother.
He has over-lingered his welcome; the days,
Grown desolate, whisper and sigh to each other;
He hears the storm in the chimney above,
And bends to the fire and shakes with the cold,
While his heart still dreams of battle and love,
And the cry of the hounds on the hills of old.
‘But we are apart in the grassy places,
Where care cannot trouble the least of our days,
Or the softness of youth be gone from our faces,
Or love's first tenderness die in our gaze.
The hare grows old as she plays in the sun
And gazes around her with eyes of brightness;
Before the swift things that she dreamed of were done
She limps along in an aged whiteness;
A storm of birds in the Asian trees
Like tulips in the air a-winging,
And the gentle waves of the summer seas,
That raise their heads and wander singing,
Must murmur at last, “Unjust, unjust”;
And “My speed is a weariness,” falters the mouse,
And the kingfisher turns to a ball of dust,
And the roof falls in of his tunnelled house.
But the love-dew dims our eyes till the day
When God shall come from the sea with a sigh
And bid the stars drop down from the sky,
And the moon like a pale rose wither away.’
Now, man of croziers, shadows called our names
And then away, away, like whirling flames;
And now fled by, mist-covered, without sound,
The youth and lady and the deer and hound;
‘Gaze no more on the phantoms,’ Niamh said,
And kissed my eyes, and, swaying her bright head
And her bright body, sang of faery and man
Before God was or my old line began;
Wars shadowy, vast, exultant; faeries of old
Who wedded men with rings of Druid gold;
And how those lovers never turn their eyes
Upon the life that fades and flickers and dies,
Yet love and kiss on dim shores far away
Rolled round with music of the sighing spray:
Yet sang no more as when, like a brown bee
That has drunk full, she crossed the misty sea
With me in her white arms a hundred years
Before this day; for now the fall of tears
Troubled her song.
I do not know if days
Or hours passed by, yet hold the morning rays
Shone many times among the glimmering flowers
Woven into her hair, before dark towers
Rose in the darkness, and the white surf gleamed
About them; and the horse of Faery screamed
And shivered, knowing the Isle of Many Fears,
Nor ceased until white Niamh stroked his ears
And named him by sweet names.
A foaming tide
Whitened afar with surge, fan-formed and wide,
Burst from a great door marred by many a blow
From mace and sword and pole-axe, long ago
When gods and giants warred. We rode between
The seaweed-covered pillars; and the green
And surging phosphorus alone gave light
On our dark pathway, till a countless flight
Of moonlit steps glimmered; and left and right
Dark statues glimmered over the pale tide
Upon dark thrones. Between the lids of one
The imaged meteors had flashed and run
And had disported in the stilly jet,
40 And the fixed stars had dawned and shone and set,
Since God made Time and Death and Sleep: the other
Stretched his long arm to where, a misty smother,
The stream churned, churned, and churned—his lips apart,
As though he told his never-slumbering heart
Of every foamdrop on its misty way.
Tying the horse to his vast foot that lay
Half in the unvesselled sea, we climbed the stair
And climbed so long, I thought the last steps were
Hung from the morning star; when these mild words
Fanned the delighted air like wings of birds:
‘My brothers spring out of their beds at morn,
A-murmur like young partridge: with loud horn
They chase the noontide deer;
And when the dew-drowned stars hang in the air
Look to long fishing-lines, or point and pare
An ashen hunting spear.
O sigh, O fluttering sigh, be kind to me;
Flutter along the froth lips of the sea,
And shores the froth lips wet:
And stay a little while, and bid them weep:
Ah, touch their blue-veined eyelids if they sleep,
And shake their coverlet.
When you have told how I weep endlessly,
Flutter along the froth lips of the sea
And home to me again,
And in the shadow of my hair lie hid,
And tell me that you found a man unbid,
The saddest of all men.’
A lady with soft eyes like funeral tapers,
And face that seemed wrought out of moonlit vapours,
And a sad mouth, that fear made tremulous
As any ruddy moth, looked down on us;
And she with a wave-rusted chain was tied
To two old eagles, full of ancient pride,
That with dim eyeballs stood on either side.
Few feathers were on their dishevelled wings,
For their dim minds were with the ancient things.
‘I bring deliverance,’ pearl-pale Niamh said.
‘Neither the living, nor the unlabouring dead,
Nor the high gods who never lived, may fight
My enemy and hope; demons for fright
Jabber and scream about him in the night;
For he is strong and crafty as the seas
That sprang under the Seven Hazel Trees,
And I must needs endure and hate and weep,
Until the gods and demons drop asleep,
Hearing Aed touch the mournful strings of gold.’
‘Is he so dreadful?’
‘Be not over-bold,
But fly while still you may.’
And thereon I:
‘This demon shall be battered till he die,
And his loose bulk be thrown in the loud tide.’
‘Flee from him,’ pearl-pale Niamh weeping cried,
‘For all men flee the demons’; but moved not
My angry king-remembering soul one jot.
There was no mightier soul of Heber's line;
Now it is old and mouse-like. For a sign
I burst the chain: still earless, nerveless, blind,
Wrapped in the things of the unhuman mind,
In some dim memory or ancient mood,
Still earless, nerveless, blind, the eagles stood.
And then we climbed the stair to a high door;
A hundred horsemen on the basalt floor
Beneath had paced content: we held our way
And stood within: clothed in a misty ray
I saw a foam-white seagull drift and float
Under the roof, and with a straining throat
Shouted, and hailed him: he hung there a star,
For no man's cry shall ever mount so far;
Not even your God could have thrown down that hall;
Stabling His unloosed lightnings in their stall,
He had sat down and sighed with cumbered heart,
As though His hour were come.
We sought the part
That was most distant from the door; green slime
Made the way slippery, and time on time
Showed prints of sea-born scales, while down through it
The captive's journeys to and fro were writ
Like a small river, and where feet touched came
A momentary gleam of phosphorus flame.
Under the deepest shadows of the hall
That woman found a ring hung on the wall,
And in the ring a torch, and with its flare
Making a world about her in the air,
Passed under the dim doorway, out of sight,
And came again, holding a second light
Burning between her fingers, and in mine
Laid it and sighed: I held a sword whose shine
No centuries could dim, and a word ran
Thereon in Ogham letters, ‘Manannan’;
That sea-god's name, who in a deep content
Sprang dripping, and, with captive demons sent
Out of the sevenfold seas, built the dark hall
Rooted in foam and clouds, and cried to all
The mightier masters of a mightier race;
And at his cry there came no milk-pale face
Under a crown of thorns and dark with blood,
But only exultant faces.
Niamh stood
With bowed head, trembling when the white blade shone,
But she whose hours of tenderness were gone
Had neither hope nor fear. I bade them hide
Under the shadows till the tumults died
Of the loud-crashing and earth-shaking fight,
Lest they should look upon some dreadful sight;
And thrust the torch between the slimy flags.
A dome made out of endless carven jags,
Where shadowy face flowed into shadowy face,
Looked down on me; and in the self-same place
I waited hour by hour, and the high dome,
Windowless, pillarless, multitudinous home
Of faces, waited; and the leisured gaze
Was loaded with the memory of days
Buried and mighty. When through the great door
The dawn came in, and glimmered on the floor
With a pale light, I journeyed round the hall
And found a door deep sunken in the wall,
The least of doors; beyond on a dim plain
A little runnel made a bubbling strain,
And on the runnel's stony and bare edge
A dusky demon dry as a withered sedge
Swayed, crooning to himself an unknown tongue:
In a sad revelry he sang and swung
Bacchant and mournful, passing to and fro
His hand along the runnel's side, as though
The flowers still grew there: far on the sea's waste
Shaking and waving, vapour vapour chased,
While high frail cloudlets, fed with a green light,
Like drifts of leaves, immovable and bright,
Hung in the passionate dawn. He slowly turned:
A demon's leisure: eyes, first white, now burned
Like wings of kingfishers; and he arose
Barking. We trampled up and down with blows
Of sword and brazen battle-axe, while day
Gave to high noon and noon to night gave way;
And when he knew the sword of Manannan
Amid the shades of night, he changed and ran
Through many shapes; I lunged at the smooth throat
Of a great eel; it changed, and I but smote
A fir-tree roaring in its leafless top;
And thereupon I drew the livid chop
Of a drowned dripping body to my breast;
Horror from horror grew; but when the west
Had surged up in a plumy fire, I drave
Through heart and spine; and cast him in the wave
Lest Niamh shudder.
Full of hope and dread
Those two came carrying wine and meat and bread,
And healed my wounds with unguents out of flowers
That feed white moths by some De Danaan shrine;
Then in that hall, lit by the dim sea-shine,
We lay on skins of otters, and drank wine,
Brewed by the sea-gods, from huge cups that lay
Upon the lips of sea-gods in their day;
And then on heaped-up skins of otters slept.
And when the sun once more in saffron stept,
Rolling his flagrant wheel out of the deep,
We sang the loves and angers without sleep,
And all the exultant labours of the strong.
But now the lying clerics murder song
With barren words and flatteries of the weak.
In what land do the powerless turn the beak
Of ravening Sorrow, or the hand of Wrath?
For all your croziers, they have left the path
And wander in the storms and clinging snows,
Hopeless for ever: ancient Oisin knows,
For he is weak and poor and blind, and lies
On the anvil of the world.
Be still: the skies
Are choked with thunder, lightning, and fierce wind,
For God has heard, and speaks His angry mind;
Go cast your body on the stones and pray,
For He has wrought midnight and dawn and day.
Saint, do you weep? I hear amid the thunder
The Fenian horses; armour torn asunder;
Laughter and cries. The armies clash and shock,
And now the daylight-darkening ravens flock.
Cease, cease, O mournful, laughing Fenian horn!
We feasted for three days. On the fourth morn
I found, dropping sea-foam on the wide stair,
And hung with slime, and whispering in his hair,
That demon dull and unsubduable;
And once more to a day-long battle fell,
And at the sundown threw him in the surge,
To lie until the fourth morn saw emerge
His new-healed shape; and for a hundred years
So warred, so feasted, with nor dreams nor fears,
Nor languor nor fatigue: an endless feast,
An endless war.
The hundred years had ceased;
I stood upon the stair: the surges bore
A beech-bough to me, and my heart grew sore,
Remembering how I had stood by white-haired Finn
Under a beech at Almhuin and heard the thin
Outcry of bats.
And then young Niamh came
Holding that horse, and sadly called my name;
I mounted, and we passed over the lone
And drifting greyness, while this monotone,
Surly and distant, mixed inseparably
Into the clangour of the wind and sea.
‘I hear my soul drop down into decay,
And Mananan's dark tower, stone after stone,
Gather sea-slime and fall the seaward way,
And the moon goad the waters night and day,
That all be overthrown.
‘But till the moon has taken all, I wage
War on the mightiest men under the skies,
And they have fallen or fled, age after age.
Light is man's love, and lighter is man's rage;
His purpose drifts and dies.’
And then lost Niamh murmured, ‘Love, we go
To the Island of Forgetfulness, for lo!
The Islands of Dancing and of Victories
Are empty of all power.’
‘And which of these
Is the Island of Content?’
‘None know,’ she said;
And on my bosom laid her weeping head.
Saint, do you weep? I hear amid the thunder
The Fenian horses; armour torn asunder;
Laughter and cries. The armies clash and shock,
And now the daylight-darkening ravens flock.
Cease, cease, O mournful, laughing Fenian horn!
We feasted for three days. On the fourth morn
I found, dropping sea-foam on the wide stair,
And hung with slime, and whispering in his hair,
That demon dull and unsubduable;
And once more to a day-long battle fell,
And at the sundown threw him in the surge,
To lie until the fourth morn saw emerge
His new-healed shape; and for a hundred years
So warred, so feasted, with nor dreams nor fears,
Nor languor nor fatigue: an endless feast,
An endless war.
The hundred years had ceased;
I stood upon the stair: the surges bore
A beech-bough to me, and my heart grew sore,
Remembering how I had stood by white-haired Finn
Under a beech at Almhuin and heard the thin
Outcry of bats.
And then young Niamh came
Holding that horse, and sadly called my name;
I mounted, and we passed over the lone
And drifting greyness, while this monotone,
Surly and distant, mixed inseparably
Into the clangour of the wind and sea.
‘I hear my soul drop down into decay,
And Mananan's dark tower, stone after stone,
Gather sea-slime and fall the seaward way,
And the moon goad the waters night and day,
That all be overthrown.
‘But till the moon has taken all, I wage
War on the mightiest men under the skies,
And they have fallen or fled, age after age.
Light is man's love, and lighter is man's rage;
His purpose drifts and dies.’
And then lost Niamh murmured, ‘Love, we go
To the Island of Forgetfulness, for lo!
The Islands of Dancing and of Victories
Are empty of all power.’
‘And which of these
Is the Island of Content?’
‘None know,’ she said;
And on my bosom laid her weeping head.
Fled foam underneath us, and round us, a wandering an milky smoke,
High as the saddle-girth, covering away from our glances the tide;
And those that fled, and that followed, from the foam-pale distance broke;
The immortal desire of Immortals we saw in their faces, and, sighed.
I mused on the chase with the Fenians, and Bran, Sceolan, Lomair,
And never a song sang Niamh, and over my finger-tips
Came now the sliding of tears and sweeping of mist-cold hair,
And now the warmth of sighs, and after the quiver of lips.
Were we days long or hours long in riding, when, rolled in a grisly peace,
An isle lay level before us, with dripping hazel and oak?
And we stood on a sea's edge we saw not; for whiter than new-washed fleece
Fled foam underneath us, and round us, a wandering and milky smoke.
And we rode on the plains of the sea's edge; the sea's edge barren and grey,
Grey sand on the green of the grasses and over the dripping trees,
Dripping and doubling landward, as though they would hasten away,
Like an army of old men longing for rest from the moan of the seas.
But the trees grew taller and closer, immense in their wrinkling bark;
Dropping; a murmurous dropping; old silence and that one sound;
For no live creatures lived there, no weasels moved in the dark:
Long sighs arose in our spirits, beneath us bubbled the ground.
And the ears of the horse went sinking away in the hollow night,
For, as drift from a sailor slow drowning the gleams of the world and the sun,
Ceased on our hands and our faces, on hazel and oak leaf, the light,
And the stars were blotted above us, and the whole of theworld was one.
Till the horse gave a whinny; for, cumbrous with stems of the hazel and oak,
A valley flowed down from his hoofs, and there in the long grass lay,
Under the starlight and shadow, a monstrous slumbering folk,
Their naked and gleaming bodies poured out and heaped in the way.
And by them were arrow and war-axe, arrow and shield and blade;
And dew-blanched horns, in whose hollow a child of threeyears old
Could sleep on a couch of rushes, and all inwrought and inlaid,
And more comely than man can make them with bronze and silver and gold.
And each of the huge white creatures was huger than fourscore men;
The tops of their ears were feathered, their hands were the claws of birds,
And, shaking the plumes of the grasses and the leaves of the mural glen,
The breathing came from those bodies, long warless, grown whiter than curds.
The wood was so spacious above them, that He who has stars for His flocks
Could fondle the leaves with His fingers, nor go from His dew-cumbered skies;
So long were they sleeping, the owls had builded their nests in their locks,
Filling the fibrous dimness with long generations of eyes.
And over the limbs and the valley the slow owls wandered and came,
Now in a place of star-fire, and now in a shadow-place wide;
And the chief of the huge white creatures, his knees in the soft star-flame,
Lay loose in a place of shadow: we drew the reins by his side.
Golden the nails of his bird-claws, flung loosely along the dim ground;
In one was a branch soft-shining with bells more many than sighs
In midst of an old man's bosom; owls ruffling and pacing around
Sidled their bodies against him, filling the shade with their eyes
And my gaze was thronged with the sleepers; no, not since the world began,
In realms where the handsome were many, nor in glamours by demons flung,
Have faces alive with such beauty been known to the salt eye of man,
Yet weary with passions that faded when the sevenfold seas were young.
And I gazed on the bell-branch, sleep's forebear, far sung by the Sennachies.
I saw how those slumberers, grown weary, their camping in grasses deep,
Of wars with the wide world and pacing the shores of the wandering seas,
Laid hands on the bell-branch and swayed it, and fed of unhuman sleep.
Snatching the horn of Niamh, I blew a long lingering note.
Came sound from those monstrous sleepers, a sound like the stirring of flies.
He, shaking the fold of his lips, and heaving the pillar of his throat,
Watched me with mournful wonder out of the wells of his eyes.
I cried, ‘Come out of the shadow, king of the nails of gold!
And tell of your goodly household and the goodly works of your hands,
That we may muse in the starlight and talk of the battles of old;
Your questioner, Oisin, is worthy, he comes from the Fenian lands.’
Half open his eyes were, and held me, dull with the smoke of their dreams;
His lips moved slowly in answer, no answer out of them came;
Then he swayed in his fingers the bell-branch, slow dropping a sound in faint streams
Softer than snow-flakes in April and piercing the marrow like flame.
Wrapt in the wave of that music, with weariness more than of earth,
The moil of my centuries filled me; and gone like a sea-covered stone
Were the memories of the whole of my sorrow and the memories of the whole of my mirth,
And a softness came from the starlight and filled me full to the bone.
In the roots of the grasses, the sorrels, I laid my body as low;
And the pearl-pale Niamh lay by me, her brow on the midst of my breast;
And the horse was gone in the distance, and years after years 'gan flow;
Square leaves of the ivy moved over us, binding us down to our rest.
And, man of the many white croziers, a century there I forgot
How the fetlocks drip blood in the battle, when the fallen on fallen lie rolled;
How the falconer follows the falcon in the weeds of the heron's plot,
And the name of the demon whose hammer made Conchubar's sword-blade of old.
And, man of the many white croziers, a century there I forgot
That the spear-shaft is made out of ashwood, the shield out of osier and hide;
How the hammers spring on the anvil, on the spearhead's burning spot;
How the slow, blue-eyed oxen of Finn low sadly at evening tide.
But in dreams, mild man of the croziers, driving the dust with their throngs,
Moved round me, of seamen or landsmen, all who are winter tales;
Came by me the kings of the Red Branch, with roaring of laughter and songs,
Or moved as they moved once, love-making or piercing the tempest with sails.
Came Blanid, Mac Nessa, tall Fergus who feastward of old time slunk,
Cook Barach, the traitor; and warward, the spittle on his beard never dry,
Dark Balor, as old as a forest, car-borne, his mighty head sunk
Helpless, men lifting the lids of his weary and death-making eye.
And by me, in soft red raiment, the Fenians moved in loud streams,
And Grania, walking and smiling, sewed with her needle of bone.
So lived I and lived not, so wrought I and wrought not, with creatures of dreams,
In a long iron sleep, as a fish in the water goes dumb as a stone.
At times our slumber was lightened. When the sun was on silver or gold;
When brushed with the wings of the owls, in the dimness they love going by;
When a glow-worm was green on a grass-leaf, lured from his lair in the mould;
Half wakening, we lifted our eyelids, and gazed on the grass with a sigh.
So watched I when, man of the croziers, at the heel of a century fell,
Weak, in the midst of the meadow, from his miles in the midst of the air,
A starling like them that forgathered 'neath a moon waking white as a shell
When the Fenians made foray at morning with Bran, Sceolan, Lomair.
I awoke: the strange horse without summons out of the distance ran,
Thrusting his nose to my shoulder; he knew in his bosom deep
That once more moved in my bosom the ancient sadness of man,
And that I would leave the Immortals, their dimness, their dews dropping sleep.
O, had you seen beautiful Niamh grow white as the waters are white,
Lord of the croziers, you even had lifted your hands and wept:
But, the bird in my fingers, I mounted, remembering alone that delight
Of twilight and slumber were gone, and that hoofs impatiently stept.
I cried, ‘O Niamh! O white one! if only a twelve-houred day,
I must gaze on the beard of Finn, and move where the old men and young
In the Fenians' dwellings of wattle lean on the chessboards and play,
Ah, sweet to me now were even bald Conan's slanderous tongue!
‘Like me were some galley forsaken far off in Meridian isle,
Remembering its long-oared companions, sails turning to threadbare rags;
No more to crawl on the seas with long oars mile after mile,
But to be amid shooting of flies and flowering of rushes and flags.’
Their motionless eyeballs of spirits grown mild with mysterious thought,
Watched her those seamless faces from the valley's glimmering girth;
As she murmured, ‘O wandering Oisin, the strength of the bell-branch is naught,
For there moves alive in your fingers the fluttering sadness of earth.
‘Then go through the lands in the saddle and see what the mortals do,
And softly come to your Niamh over the tops of the tide;
But weep for your Niamh, O Oisin, weep; for if only your shoe
Brush lightly as haymouse earth's pebbles, you will come no more to my side.
‘O flaming lion of the world, O when will you turn to your rest?’
I saw from a distant saddle; from the earth she made her moan:
‘I would die like a small withered leaf in the autumn, for breast unto breast
We shall mingle no more, nor our gazes empty their sweetness lone
‘In the isles of the farthest seas where only the spirits come.
Were the winds less soft than the breath of a pigeon who sleeps on her nest,
Nor lost in the star-fires and odours the sound of the sea's vague drum?
O flaming lion of the world, O when will you turn to your rest?’
The wailing grew distant; I rode by the woods of the wrinkling bark,
Where ever is murmurous dropping, old silence and that one sound;
For no live creatures live there, no weasels move in the dark;
In a reverie forgetful of all things, over the bubbling ground.
And I rode by the plains of the sea's edge, where all is barren and grey,
Grey sand on the green of the grasses and over the dripping trees,
Dripping and doubling landward, as though they would hasten away,
Like an army of old men longing for rest from the moan of the seas.
And the winds made the sands on the sea's edge turning and turning go,
As my mind made the names of the Fenians. Far from the hazel and oak,
I rode away on the surges, where, high as the saddle-bow,
Fled foam underneath me, and round me, a wandering and milky smoke.
Long fled the foam-flakes around me, the winds fled out of the vast,
Snatching the bird in secret; nor knew I, embosomed apart,
When they froze the cloth on my body like armour riveted fast,
For Remembrance, lifting her leanness, keened in the gates of my heart.
Till, fattening the winds of the morning, an odour of new-mown hay
Came, and my forehead fell low, and my tears like berries fell down;
Later a sound came, half lost in the sound of a shore far away,
From the great grass-barnacle calling, and later the shore-weeds brown.
If I were as I once was, the strong hoofs crushing the sand and the shells,
Coming out of the sea as the dawn comes, a chaunt of love on my lips,
Not coughing, my head on my knees, and praying, and wroth with the bells,
I would leave no saint's head on his body from Rachlin to Bera of ships.
Making way from the kindling surges, I rode on a bridle-path
Much wondering to see upon all hands, of wattles and woodwork made,
Your bell-mounted churches, and guardless the sacred cairn and the rath,
And a small and a feeble populace stooping with mattock and spade,
Or weeding or ploughing with faces a-shining with much-toil wet;
While in this place and that place, with bodies unglorious, their chieftains stood,
Awaiting in patience the straw-death, croziered one, caught in your net:
Went the laughter of scorn from my mouth like the roaring of wind in a wood.
And because I went by them so huge and so speedy with eyes so bright,
Came after the hard gaze of youth, or an old man lifted his head:
And I rode and I rode, and I cried out, ‘The Fenians hunt wolves in the night,
So sleep thee by daytime.’ A voice cried, ‘The Fenians a long time are dead.’
A whitebeard stood hushed on the pathway, the flesh of his face as dried grass,
And in folds round his eyes and his mouth, he sad as a child without milk;
And the dreams of the islands were gone, and I knew how men sorrow and pass,
And their hound, and their horse, and their love, and their eyes that glimmer like silk.
And wrapping my face in my hair, I murmured, ‘In old age they ceased’;
And my tears were larger than berries, and I murmured, ‘Where white clouds lie spread
On Crevroe or broad Knockfefin, with many of old they feast
On the floors of the gods.’ He cried, ‘No, the gods a long time are dead.’
And lonely and longing for Niamh, I shivered and turned me about,
The heart in me longing to leap like a grasshopper into her heart;
I turned and rode to the westward, and followed the sea's old shout
Till I saw where Maeve lies sleeping till starlight and midnight part.
And there at the foot of the mountain, two carried a sack full of sand,
They bore it with staggering and sweating, but fell with their burden at length.
Leaning down from the gem-studded saddle, I flung it five yards with my hand,
With a sob for men waxing so weakly, a sob for the Fenians' old strength.
The rest you have heard of, O croziered man; how, when divided the girth,
I fell on the path, and the horse went away like a summer fly;
And my years three hundred fell on me, and I rose, and walked on the earth,
A creeping old man, full of sleep, with the spittle on his beard never dry.
How the men of the sand-sack showed me a church with its belfry in air;
Sorry place, where for swing of the war-axe in my dim eyes the crozier gleams;
What place have Caoilte and Conan, and Bran, Sceolan, Lomair?
Speak, you too are old with your memories, an old man surrounded with dreams.
Where the flesh of the footsole clingeth on the burning stones is their place;
Where the demons whip them with wires on the burning stones of wide Hell,
Watching the blessèd ones move far off, and the smile on God's face,
Between them a gateway of brass, and the howl of the angels who fell.
Put the staff in my hands; for I go to the Fenians, O cleric, to chaunt
The war-songs that roused them of old; they will rise, making clouds with their breath,
Innumerable, singing, exultant; the clay underneath them shall pant,
And demons be broken in pieces, and trampled beneath them in death.
And demons afraid in their darkness; deep horror of eyes and of wings,
Afraid, their ears on the earth laid, shall listen and rise up and weep;
Hearing the shaking of shields and the quiver of stretched bowstrings,
Hearing Hell loud with a murmur, as shouting and mocking we sweep.
We will tear out the flaming stones, and batter the gateway of brass
And enter, and none sayeth ‘No’ when there enters the strongly armed guest;
Make clean as a broom cleans, and march on as oxen move over young grass;
Then feast, making converse of wars, and of old wounds, and turn to our rest.
Put the staff in my hands; for I go to the Fenians, O cleric, to chaunt
The war-songs that roused them of old; they will rise, making clouds with their breath,
Innumerable, singing, exultant; the clay underneath them shall pant,
And demons be broken in pieces, and trampled beneath them in death.
And demons afraid in their darkness; deep horror of eyes and of wings,
Afraid, their ears on the earth laid, shall listen and rise up and weep;
Hearing the shaking of shields and the quiver of stretched bowstrings,
Hearing Hell loud with a murmur, as shouting and mocking we sweep.
We will tear out the flaming stones, and batter the gateway of brass
And enter, and none sayeth ‘No’ when there enters the strongly armed guest;
Make clean as a broom cleans, and march on as oxen move over young grass;
Then feast, making converse of wars, and of old wounds, and turn to our rest.
On the flaming stones, without refuge, the limbs of the Fenians are tost;
None war on the masters of Hell, who could break up the world in their rage;
But kneel and wear out the flags and pray for your soul that is lost
Through the demon love of its youth and its godless and passionate age.
Ah me! to be shaken with coughing and broken with old age and pain,
Without laughter, a show unto children, alone with remembrance and fear;
All emptied of purple hours as a beggar's cloak in the rain,
As a hay-cock out on the flood, or a wolf sucked under a weir.
It were sad to gaze on the blessèd and no man I loved of old there;
I throw down the chain of small stones! when life in my body has ceased,
I will go to Caoilte, and Conan, and Bran, Sceolan, Lomair,
And dwell in the house of the Fenians, be they in flames or at feast.



Under my window-ledge the waters race,
Otters below and moor-hens on the top,
Run for a mile undimmed in Heaven's face
Then darkening through ‘dark’ Raftery's ‘cellar’ drop,
Run underground, rise in a rocky place
In Coole demesne, and there to finish up
Spread to a lake and drop into a hole.
What's water but the generated soul?
Upon the border of that lake's a wood
Now all dry sticks under a wintry sun,
And in a copse of beeches there I stood,
For Nature's pulled her tragic buskin on
And all the rant's a mirror of my mood:
At sudden thunder of the mounting swan
I turned about and looked where branches break
The glittering reaches of the flooded lake.
Another emblem there! That stormy white
But seems a concentration of the sky;
And, like the soul, it sails into the sight
And in the morning's gone, no man knows why;
And is so lovely that it sets to right
What knowledge or its lack had set awry,
So arrogantly pure, a child might think
It can be murdered with a spot of ink.
Sound of a stick upon the floor, a sound
From somebody that toils from chair to chair;
Beloved books that famous hands have bound,
Old marble heads, old pictures everywhere;
Great rooms where travelled men and children found
Content or joy; a last inheritor
Where none has reigned that lacked a name and fame
Or out of folly into folly came.
A spot whereon the founders lived and died
Seemed once more dear than life; ancestral trees
Or gardens rich in memory glorified
Marriages, alliances and families,
And every bride's ambition satisfied.
Where fashion or mere fantasy decrees
Man shifts about—all that great glory spent—
Like some poor Arab tribesman and his tent.
We were the last romantics—chose for theme
Traditional sanctity and loveliness;
Whatever's written in what poets name
The book of the people; whatever most can bless
The mind of man or elevate a rhyme;
But all is changed, that high horse riderless,
Though mounted in that saddle Homer rode
Where the swan drifts upon a darkening flood.



How beautiful thy colors are, oh marvellous morn of May,
    The black-birds pour their copious lays; would Leigha were, here,
The cuckoos sing unceasingly; how welcome day by day
    The gay and noble seasons; the summer swallows shear
The streams beside the branchy wood, the horses seek the pool,
    The heather spreads her long loose hair; the frail marsh-cottons grow,
The far bewildered planets pour on all an influence cool,
    And seas are lulled in quietness, and lavish blossoms blow.



Oh! would on the hills of the falcons we tended our flocks
    The rams and the ewes and the young lambs that follow them bleating—
Away and away 'mong the dewberries over the rocks,
    With the sun on their wool and the width of their wide foreheads beating.
Oh, would that we were with our flocks on the face of the mountain
    A-counting the falcons above us, on wide wings a-hover,
    As they watch for the trembling field-mice, who steal from the clover
To drink of the dew of the spray-dabbled rim of the fountain.
    We have girded our swords, we have girded our swords for our flocks,
    For the quiet and stillness and peace of the dew-covered rocks.
Rejoicing we gather, rejoicing from tending the vine
    And startling with laughter the heart of the dream-ridden day:
Wine-stainèd and shouting we trampled the press of the wine.
    In our hearts is the ache and hunger of the battle; away
    In the vineyards are brooding the merle and the throstle and jay.
We have girded our swords that the land may have silence and peace
    And we may have stillness for days of a measureless toil
    On the fiery plains of the valley where labourless coil
The rivers whose labourless voices will never more cease;
    But will laugh by our graves as they laugh where our forefathers are,
    With a laughter as light as the pulse and the beat of a star.



The brawling of a sparrow in the eaves,
The brilliant moon and all the milky sky,
And all that famous harmony of leaves,
Had blotted out man's image and his cry.
A girl arose that had red mournful lips
And seemed the greatness of the world in tears,
Doomed like Odysseus and the labouring ships
And proud as Priam murdered with his peers;
Arose, and on the instant clamorous eaves,
A climbing moon upon an empty sky,
And all that lamentation of the leaves,
Could but compose man's image and his cry.



‘The man that I praise,’
Cries out the empty well,
‘Lives all his days
Where a hand on the bell
Can call the milch cows
To the comfortable door of his house.
Who but an idiot would praise
Dry stones in a well?’
‘The man that I praise,’
Cries out the leafless tree,
‘Has married and stays
By an old hearth, and he
On naught has set store
But children and dogs on the floor.
Who but an idiot would praise
A withered tree?’



Come to me, human faces,
Familiar memories;
I have found hateful eyes
Among the desolate places,
Unfaltering, unmoistened eyes.
Folly alone I cherish,
I choose it for my share;
Being but a mouthful of air,
I am content to perish;
I am but a mouthful of sweet air.
O lamentable shadows,
Obscurity of strife!
I choose a pleasant life
Among indolent meadows;
Wisdom must live a bitter life.



‘Lay me in a cushioned chair;
Carry me, ye four,
With cushions here and cushions there,
To see the world once more.
‘To stable and to kennel go;
Bring what is there to bring;
Lead my Lollard to and fro,
Or gently in a ring.
‘Put the chair upon the grass:
Bring Rody and his hounds,
That I may contented pass
From these earthly bounds.’
His eyelids droop, his head falls low,
His old eyes cloud with dreams;
The sun upon all things that grow
Falls in sleepy streams.
Brown Lollard treads upon the lawn,
And to the armchair goes,
And now the old man's dreams are gone,
He smooths the long brown nose.
And now moves many a pleasant tongue
Upon his wasted hands,
For leading aged hounds and young
The huntsman near him stands.
‘Huntsman Rody, blow the horn,
Make the hills reply.’
The huntsman loosens on the morn
A gay wandering cry.
Fire is in the old man's eyes,
His fingers move and sway,
And when the wandering music dies
They hear him feebly say,
‘Huntsman Rody, blow the horn,
Make the hills reply.’
‘I cannot blow upon my horn,
I can but weep and sigh.’
Servants round his cushioned place
Are with new sorrow wrung;
Hounds are gazing on his face,
Aged hounds and young.
One blind hound only lies apart
On the sun-smitten grass;
He holds deep commune with his heart:
The moments pass and pass;
The blind hound with a mournful din
Lifts slow his wintry head;
The servants bear the body in;
The hounds wail for the dead.



You waves, though you dance by my feet like children at play,
Though you glow and you glance, though you purr and you dart;
In the Junes that were warmer than these are, the waves were more gay,
When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart.
The herring are not in the tides as they were of old;
My sorrow! for many a creak gave the creel in the cart
That carried the take to Sligo town to be sold,
When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart.
And ah, you proud maiden, you are not so fair when his oar
Is heard on the water, as they were, the proud and apart,
Who paced in the eve by the nets on the pebbly shore,
When I was a boy with never a crack in my heart.



Down by the salley gardens my love and I did meet;
She passed the salley gardens with little snow-white feet.
She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree;
But I, being young and foolish, with her would not agree.
In a field by the river my love and I did stand,
And on my leaning shoulder she laid her snow-white hand.
She bid me take life easy, as the grass grows on the weirs;
But I was young and foolish, and now am full of tears.



O curlew, cry no more in the air,
Or only to the water in the West;
Because your crying brings to my mind
Passion-dimmed eyes and long heavy hair
That was shaken out over my breast:
There is enough evil in the crying of wind.



I hear the Shadowy Horses, their long manes a-shake,
Their hoofs heavy with tumult, their eyes glimmering white;
The North unfolds above them clinging, creeping night,
The East her hidden joy before the morning break,
The West weeps in pale dew and sighs passing away,
The South is pouring down roses of crimson fire:
O vanity of Sleep, Hope, Dream, endless Desire,
The Horses of Disaster plunge in the heavy clay:
Beloved, let your eyes half close, and your heart beat
Over my heart, and your hair fall over my breast,
Drowning love's lonely hour in deep twilight of rest,
And hiding their tossing manes and their tumultuous feet.



I rise in the dawn, and I kneel and blow
Till the seed of the fire flicker and glow;
And then I must scrub and bake and sweep
Till stars are beginning to blink and peep;
And the young lie long and dream in their bed
Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head,
And their day goes over in idleness,
And they sigh if the wind but lift a tress:
While I must work because I am old,
And the seed of the fire gets feeble and cold.



Now must I these three praise—
Three women that have wrought
What joy is in my days:
One because no thought,
Nor those unpassing cares,
No, not in these fifteen
Many-times-troubled years,
Could ever come between
Mind and delighted mind;
And one because her hand
Had strength that could unbind
What none can understand,
What none can have and thrive,
Youth's dreamy load, till she
So changed me that I live
Labouring in ecstasy.
And what of her that took
All till my youth was gone
With scarce a pitying look?
How could I praise that one?
When day begins to break
I count my good and bad,
Being wakeful for her sake,
Remembering what she had,
What eagle look still shows,
While up from my heart's root
So great a sweetness flows
I shake from head to foot.



Maiden, come forth: the woods keep watch for thee;
Within the drowsy blossom hangs the bee;
'Tis morn: thy sheep are wandering down the vale—
'Tis morn: like old men's eyes the stars are pale,
And thro' the odorous air love-dreams are winging—
'Tis morn, and from the dew-drench'd wood I've sped
To welcome thee, Naschina, with sweet singing.
Come forth: the morn is fair; as from the pyre
Of sad Queen Dido shone the lapping fire
Unto the wanderers' ships, or as day fills
The brazen sky, so blaze the daffodils;
As Argive Clytemnestra saw out-burn
The flagrant signal of her lord's return,
Afar, clear-shining on the herald hills,
In vale and dell so blaze the daffodils;
As when upon her cloud-o'er-muffled steep
Œnone saw the fires of Troia leap,
And laugh'd, so, so along the bubbling rills
In lemon-tinted lines, so blaze the daffodils.
Come forth, come forth, my music flows for thee,
A quenchless grieving of love melody.
        Now her sheep all browsing meet
            By the singing waters' edge,
        Tread and tread their cloven feet
            On the ruddy river sedge,
        For the dawn the foliage fingereth,
            And the waves are leaping white,
        She alone, my lady, lingereth
            While the world is roll'd in light.
Shepherd, to mar the morning hast thou come?
Hear me, and, shepherd, hearing me, grow dumb.
        Where is the owl that lately flew
            Flickering under the white moonshine?
        She sleeps with owlets two and two,
            Sleepily close her round bright eyne;
        O'er her nest the lights are blending:
            Come thou, come, and to this string—
        Though my love-sick heart is rending,
            Not a sad note will I sing.
Shepherd, to mar the morning hast thou come?
Hear me, and, shepherd, hearing me, grow dumb.
        Where is the owl that lately flew
            Flickering under the white moonshine?
        She sleeps with owlets two and two,
            Sleepily close her round bright eyne;
        O'er her nest the lights are blending:
            Come thou, come, and to this string—
        Though my love-sick heart is rending,
            Not a sad note will I sing.
I am not dumb: I'd sooner silent wait
Within the fold to hear the creaking gate—
        The wood and the valley and sea
            Awaken, awaken to new-born lustre;
        A new day's troop of wasp and bee
            Hang on the side of the round grape-cluster;
        Blenching on high the dull stars sicken
            Morn-bewildered, and the cup
        Of the tarn where young waves quicken
            Hurls their swooning lustre up.
I am not dumb: I'd sooner silent wait
Within the fold to hear the creaking gate—
        The wood and the valley and sea
            Awaken, awaken to new-born lustre;
        A new day's troop of wasp and bee
            Hang on the side of the round grape-cluster;
        Blenching on high the dull stars sicken
            Morn-bewildered, and the cup
        Of the tarn where young waves quicken
            Hurls their swooning lustre up.
I'll silence this dull singer—
        Oh, more dark thy gleaming hair is
            Than the peeping pansy's face,
        And thine eyes more bright than faery's,
            Dancing in some moony place,
        And thy neck's a poisèd lily;
            See, I tell thy beauties o'er,
        As within a cellar chilly
            Some old miser tells his store;
        And thy memory I keep,
            Till all else is empty chaff,
        Till I laugh when others weep,
            Weeping when all others laugh.
I'll silence this dull singer—
        Oh, more dark thy gleaming hair is
            Than the peeping pansy's face,
        And thine eyes more bright than faery's,
            Dancing in some moony place,
        And thy neck's a poisèd lily;
            See, I tell thy beauties o'er,
        As within a cellar chilly
            Some old miser tells his store;
        And thy memory I keep,
            Till all else is empty chaff,
        Till I laugh when others weep,
            Weeping when all others laugh.
I'll quench his singing with loud song—
        Come forth, for in a thousand bowers
            Blossoms open dewy lips;
        Over the lake the water-flowers
            Drift and float like silver ships;
        Ever ringing, ringing, ringing,
            With unfaltering persistence,
        Hundred-throated morn is singing,
            Joy and love are one existence.
I'll quench his singing with loud song—
        Come forth, for in a thousand bowers
            Blossoms open dewy lips;
        Over the lake the water-flowers
            Drift and float like silver ships;
        Ever ringing, ringing, ringing,
            With unfaltering persistence,
        Hundred-throated morn is singing,
            Joy and love are one existence.
        Lone, and wanting thee, I weep;
            Love and sorrow, one existence,
        Sadness, soul of joy most deep,
            Is the burthen and persistence
        Of the songs that never sleep.
            Love from heaven came of yore
        As a token and a sign,
            Singing o'er and o'er and o'er
        Of his death and change malign.
With fiery song I'll drown yon puny voice.
        Passeth the moon with her sickle of light,
            Slowly, slowly fadeth she,
        Weary of reaping the barren night
            And the desolate shuddering sea.
With fiery song I'll drown yon puny voice.
        Passeth the moon with her sickle of light,
            Slowly, slowly fadeth she,
        Weary of reaping the barren night
            And the desolate shuddering sea.
        Loud for thee the morning crieth,
    And my soul in waiting dieth,
    Ever dieth, dieth, dieth.
        Far the morning vapours shatter,
    As the leaves in autumn scatter.
        In the heart of the dawn the rivers are singing,
        Over them crimson vapours winging.
            All the world is ringing, ringing;
        All the world is singing, singing.
        Lift my soul from rayless night—
            Stricken all the night is past—
        Music of my soul and light—
            Back the shadows creep aghast—
Oh, cease your singing! wild and shrill and loud,
On my poor brain your busy tumults crowd.
I fain had been the first of singing things
To welcome thee, when o'er the owlet's wings
And troubled eyes came morning's first-born glow;
But yonder thing, yon idle noise, yon crow,
Yon shepherd—
Came your spirit to beguile
With singing sweet as e'er round lake-lulled isle
Sing summer waves. But yonder shepherd vile,
All clamour-clothed—
Was't clamour when I sung,
Whom men have named Arcadia's sweetest tongue.
A horn! some troop of robbers winding goes
Along the wood with subtle tread and bended bows.
Fly!
Fly!
So these brave shepherds both are gone;
Courageous miracles!
The sunlight shone
Upon his wings. Thro' yonder green abyss
I sent an arrow.
And I saw you miss;
And far away the heron sails, I wis.
Nay, nay, I miss'd him not; his days
Of flight are done.
Most fair of all who graze
Their sheep in Arcady, Naschina, hail!
Naschina, hail!
Most fair of all who graze
Their sheep in Arcady, Naschina, hail!
Naschina, hail!
I'd drive thy woolly sheep,
If so I might, along a dewy vale,
Where all night long the heavens weep and weep,
Dreaming in their soft odour-laden sleep;
Where all night long the lonely moon, the white
Sad Lady of the deep, pours down her light;
And 'mong the stunted ash-trees' drooping rings,
All flame-like gushing from the hollow stones,
By day and night a lonely fountain sings,
    And there to its own heart for ever moans.
I'd be alone.
We two, by that pale fount,
Unmindful of its woes, would twine a wreath
    As fair as any that on Ida's mount
Long ere an arrow whizzed or sword left sheath
The shepherd Paris for Œnone made,
Singing of arms and battles some old stave,
As lies dark water in a murmurous glade,
Dreaming the live-long summer in the shade,
Dreaming of flashing flight and of the plumèd wave.
Naschina, wherefore are your eyes so bright
With tears?
I weary of ye. There is none
Of all on whom Arcadian suns have shone
Sustains his soul in courage or in might.
Poor race of leafy Arcady, your love
To prove what can ye do? What things above
Sheep-guiding, or the bringing some strange bird,
Or some small beast most wonderfully furr'd,
Or sad sea-shells where little echoes sit?
Such quests as these, I trow, need little wit.
And the great grey lynx's skin!
In sooth, methinks
That I myself could shoot a great grey lynx.
Oh stay, Naschina, stay!
Here, where men know the gracious woodland joys,
Joy's brother, Fear, dwells ever in each breast—
Joy's brother, Fear, lurks in each leafy way.
I weary of your songs and hunter's toys.
To prove his love a knight with lance in rest
Will circle round the world upon a quest,
Until afar appear the gleaming dragon-scales:
From morn the twain until the evening pales
Will struggle. Or he'll seek enchanter old,
Who sits in lonely splendour, mail'd in gold,
And they will war, 'mid wondrous elfin-sights:
Such may I love. The shuddering forest lights
Of green Arcadia do not hide, I trow,
Such men, such hearts. But, uncouth hunter, thou
Know'st naught of this.
And, uncouth hunter, now—
Ay, boy.
Let's see if that same heron's dead.
And whither, uncouth hunter? Why so fast?
So! 'mid the willow-glade you pause at last.
Here is the place, the cliff-encircled wood;
Here grow that shy, retiring sisterhood,
The pale anemones. We've sought all day,
And found.
'Tis well!—another mile of way
I could not go.
Let's talk, and let's be sad,
Here in the shade.
Why? Why?
For what is glad?
For, look you, sad's the murmur of the bees,
Yon wind goes sadly, and the grass and trees
Reply like moaning of imprisoned elf:
The whole world's sadly talking to itself.
The waves in yonder lake where points my hand
Beat out their lives lamenting o'er the sand;
The birds that nestle in the leaves are sad,
Poor sad wood-rhapsodists.
Not so: they're glad.
All rhapsody hath sorrow for its soul.
Yon eager lark, that fills with song the whole
Of this wide vale, embosomed in the air,
Is sorrow in his song, or any care?
Doth not yon bird, yon quivering bird, rejoice?
I hear the whole sky's sorrow in one voice.
Nay, nay, Almintor, yonder song is glad.
'Tis beautiful, and therefore it is sad.
Have done this phrasing, and say why, in sooth,
Almintor, thou hast grown so full of ruth,
And wherefore have we come?
A song to hear.
But whence, and when?
Over the willows sere
Out of the air.
And when?
When the sun goes down
Over the crown of the willows brown.
Oh, boy, I'm bound on a most fearful quest;
For so she willed—thou heard'st? Upon the breast
Of yonder lake, from whose green banks alway
The poplars gaze across the waters grey,
And nod to one another, lies a green,
Small island, where the full soft sheen
Of evening and glad silence dwelleth aye,
For there the great Enchantress lives.
And there
Groweth the goblin flower of joy, her care,
By many sought, and 'tis a forest tale,
How they who seek are ever doomed to fail.
Some say that all who touch the island lone
Are changed for ever into moon-white stone.
That flower I seek.
Thou never wilt return.
I'll bring that flower to her, and so may earn
Her love: to her who wears that bloom comes truth,
And elvish wisdom, and long years of youth
Beyond a mortal's years. I wait the song
That calls.
O evil starred!
It comes along
The wind at evening when the sun goes down
Over the crown of the willows brown.
See, yonder sinks the sun, yonder a shade
Goes flickering in reverberated light.
There! There! Dost thou not see?
I see the night,
Deep-eyed, slow-footing down the empty glade.
            From the shadowy hollow
            Arise thou and follow!
Sad faery tones.
'Tis thus they ever seem,
As some dead maiden's singing in a dream.
            When the tree was o'er-appled
                For mother Eve's winning
                I was at her sinning.
            O'er the grass light-endappled
                I wandered and trod,
                O'er the green Eden-sod;
            And I sang round the tree
            As I sing now to thee:
                Arise from the hollow,
                And follow, and follow!
            Away in the green paradise,
                As I wandered unseen,
                (How glad was her mien!),
            I saw her as you now arise;
                Before her I trod
                O'er the green Eden-sod,
            And I sang round the tree,
            As I sing now to thee:
                From the shadowy hollow
                Come follow! Come follow!
            And I sang round the tree,
            As I sing now to thee:
            From the green shaded hollow
            Arise, worm, and follow!
            When the tree was o'er-appled
                For mother Eve's winning
                I was at her sinning.
            O'er the grass light-endappled
                I wandered and trod,
                O'er the green Eden-sod;
            And I sang round the tree
            As I sing now to thee:
                Arise from the hollow,
                And follow, and follow!
            Away in the green paradise,
                As I wandered unseen,
                (How glad was her mien!),
            I saw her as you now arise;
                Before her I trod
                O'er the green Eden-sod,
            And I sang round the tree,
            As I sing now to thee:
                From the shadowy hollow
                Come follow! Come follow!
            And I sang round the tree,
            As I sing now to thee:
            From the green shaded hollow
            Arise, worm, and follow!
I, too, will follow for this evil-starred one's sake
Unto the dolorous border of the fairy lake.
See! oh, see! the dew-drowned bunches
    Of the monk's-hood how they shake,
    Nodding by the flickering lake,
There where yonder squirrel crunches
    Acorns green, with eyes awake.
I followed him from my green lair,
But wide awake his two eyes were.
Oh, learnèd is each monk's-hood's mind,
    And full of wisdom is each bloom,
    As, clothed in ceremonial gloom,
They hear the story of the wind,
    That dieth slow with sunsick doom.
The south breeze now in dying fears
Tells all his sinning in their ears.
He says 'twas he, and 'twas no other,
    Blew my crimson cap away
    O'er the lake this very day.
Hark! he's dead—my drowsy brother,
    And has not heard Absolvo te.
Peace, peace, the earth's a-quake. I hear
Some barbarous, un-faery thing draw near.
The evening gleams are green and gold and red
Along the lake. The crane has homeward fled.
And flowers around in clustering thousands are,
Each shining clear as some unbaffled star;
The skies more dim, though burning like a shield,
Above these men whose mouths were sealed
Long years ago, and unto stone congealed.
And, oh! the wonder of the thing! each came
When low the sun sank down in clotted flame
Beyond the lake, whose smallest wave was burdened
With rolling fire, beyond the high trees turbaned
With clinging mist, each star-fought wanderer came
As I, to choose beneath day's dying flame;
And they are all now stone, as I shall be,
Unless some pitying god shall succour me
In this my choice.
Some god might help; if so
Mayhap 'twere better that aside I throw
All choice, and give to chance for guiding chance
Some cast of die, or let some arrow glance
For guiding of the gods. The sacred bloom
To seek not hopeless have I crossed the gloom,
With that song leading where harmonic woods
Nourish the panthers in dim solitudes;
Vast greenness, where eternal Rumour dwells,
And hath her home by many-folded dells.
I passed by many caves of dripping stone,
And heard each unseen Echo on her throne,
Lone regent of the woods, deep muttering,
And then new murmurs came new uttering
In song, from goblin waters swaying white,
Mocking with patient laughter all the night
Of those vast woods; and then I saw the boat,
Living, wide wingèd, on the waters float.
Strange draperies did all the sides adorn,
And the waves bowed before it like mown corn,
The wingèd wonder of all Faery Land.
It bore me softly where the shallow sand
Binds, as within a girdle or a ring,
The lake-embosomed isle. Nay, this my quest
Shall not so hopeless prove: some god may rest
Upon the wind, and guide mine arrow's course.
    From yonder pinnacle above the lake
I'll send mine arrow, now my one resource;
    The nighest blossom where it falls I'll take.
The evening gleams are green and gold and red
Along the lake. The crane has homeward fled.
And flowers around in clustering thousands are,
Each shining clear as some unbaffled star;
The skies more dim, though burning like a shield,
Above these men whose mouths were sealed
Long years ago, and unto stone congealed.
And, oh! the wonder of the thing! each came
When low the sun sank down in clotted flame
Beyond the lake, whose smallest wave was burdened
With rolling fire, beyond the high trees turbaned
With clinging mist, each star-fought wanderer came
As I, to choose beneath day's dying flame;
And they are all now stone, as I shall be,
Unless some pitying god shall succour me
In this my choice.
Some god might help; if so
Mayhap 'twere better that aside I throw
All choice, and give to chance for guiding chance
Some cast of die, or let some arrow glance
For guiding of the gods. The sacred bloom
To seek not hopeless have I crossed the gloom,
With that song leading where harmonic woods
Nourish the panthers in dim solitudes;
Vast greenness, where eternal Rumour dwells,
And hath her home by many-folded dells.
I passed by many caves of dripping stone,
And heard each unseen Echo on her throne,
Lone regent of the woods, deep muttering,
And then new murmurs came new uttering
In song, from goblin waters swaying white,
Mocking with patient laughter all the night
Of those vast woods; and then I saw the boat,
Living, wide wingèd, on the waters float.
Strange draperies did all the sides adorn,
And the waves bowed before it like mown corn,
The wingèd wonder of all Faery Land.
It bore me softly where the shallow sand
Binds, as within a girdle or a ring,
The lake-embosomed isle. Nay, this my quest
Shall not so hopeless prove: some god may rest
Upon the wind, and guide mine arrow's course.
    From yonder pinnacle above the lake
I'll send mine arrow, now my one resource;
    The nighest blossom where it falls I'll take.
Fickle the guiding his arrow shall find!
Some goblin, my servant, on wings that are fleet,
    That nestles alone in the whistling wind,
Go pilot the course of his arrow's deceit!
'Tis here the arrow fell: the breezes laughed
Around the feathery tip. Unto the shaft
This blossom is most near. Statue! Oh, thou
Whose beard a moonlight river is, whose brow
Is stone: old sleeper! this same afternoon
O'er much I've talked: I shall be silent soon,
If wrong my choice, as silent as thou art.
Oh! gracious Pan, take now thy servant's part.
He was our ancient god. If I speak low,
And not too clear, how will the new god know
But that I called on him?
            Sleeping lord of archery,
            No more a-roving shalt thou see
            The panther with her yellow hide,
            Of the forests all the pride,
            Or her ever burning eyes,
            When she in a cavern lies,
            Watching o'er her awful young,
            Where their sinewy might is strung
            In the never-lifting dark.
            No! Thou standest still and stark,
            That of old wert moving ever,
            But a mother panther never
            O'er her young so eagerly
            Did her lonely watching take
            As I my watching lest you wake,
            Sleeping lord of archery.
I, as a shepherd dressed, will seek and seek
Until I find him. What a weary week,
My pretty child, since he has gone, oh say
Once more how on that miserable day
He passed across the lake.
When we two came
From the wood's ways, then, like a silver flame,
We saw the dolorous lake; and then thy name
He carved on trees, and with a sun-dry weed
He wrote it on the sands (the owls may read
And ponder it if they will); then near at hand
The boat's prow grated on the shallow sand,
And loudly twice the living wings flapt wide,
And, leaping to their feet, far Echoes cried,
Each other answering. Then between each wing
He sat, and then I heard the white lake sing,
Curving beneath the prow; as some wild drake
Half lit, so flapt the wings across the lake—
Alas! I make you sadder, shepherdess.
Nay, grief in feeding on old grief grows less.
Grief needs much feeding then. Of him I swear
We've talked and talked, and not a whit more rare
Your weeping fits!
Look you, so very strait
The barred woodpecker's mansion is and deep,
No other bird may enter in.
Well?
Late—
Aye, very lately, sorrow came to weep
Within mine heart; and naught but sorrow now
Can enter there.
See! See! above yon brow
Of hill two shepherds come.
Farewell! I'll don
My shepherd garments, and return anon.
Two men who love one maid have ample cause
Of war. Of yore, two shepherds, where we pause,
Fought once for self-same reason on the hem
Of the wide woods.
And the deep earth gathered them.
We must get swords.
Is't the only way? Oh, see,
Yon is the hunter's, Sir Almintor's, page;
Let him between us judge, for he can gauge
And measure out the ways of chivalry.
Sir Page, Almintor's friend, and therefore learned
In all such things, pray let thine ears be turned,
And hear, and judge.
My popinjay, what now?
This thing we ask: must we two fight?—Judge thou.
Each came one morn, with welcoming of song,
Unto her door; for this, where nod the long
And shoreward waves, we nigh have fought; waves bring
The brown weed burden, so the sword brings fear
To us.
Oh wise art thou in such a thing,
Being Almintor's page. Now judge you here.
We love Naschina both.
Whom loves she best?
She cares no whit for either, but has blest
Almintor with her love.
Who art thou?—speak,
As the sea's furrows on a sea-tost shell,
Sad histories are lettered on thy cheek.
It is the shepherd Guarimond, who loveth well
In the deep centres of the secret woods.
Old miser hoards of grief to tell and tell:
Young Guarimond he tells them o'er and o'er,
To see them drowned by those vast solitudes,
With their unhuman sorrows.
Cease! no more!
Thou hast an over-nimble tongue.
Thy grief,
What is it, friend?
He lost i' the woods the chief
And only sheep he loved of all the troop.
More grief is mine. No man shall ever stoop
Beneath the weight of greater grief than I;
I like you, and, in sooth I know not why.
Now, judge, must shepherd Thernot there and I
For this thing fight—we love one maid?
Her name?
Naschina.
Oh, I know her well—a lame,
Dull-witted thing, with face red squirrel-brown.
A long, brown grasshopper of maids!
Peace, sir!
'Tis clear that you have seen her not. The crown
Is not more fair and joyous than she is
Of beams a-flicker on yon lonely fir,
Nor faeries in the honey-heart of June astir.
By bosky June I swear, and by the bee, her minister.
There is no way but that ye fight I wis,
If her ye love.
Aye, Colin, we must fight.
Aye, fight we must.
Tell me, Antonio, might
They get them swords, and both or either fall?
No, no; when that shall be, then men may call
Down to their feet the stars that shine alone,
Each one at gaze for aye upon his whirling throne.
No, no; when that shall be, then men may call
Down to their feet the stars that shine alone,
Each one at gaze for aye upon his whirling throne.
Behold, how like a swarm of fiery bees
The light is dancing o'er the knotted trees,
In busy flakes; re-shining from the lake,
Through this night-vested place the red beams break.
From the deep earth unto the lurid sky
All things are quiet in the eve's wide eye.
The air is still above, and still each leaf,
But loud the grasshopper that sits beneath.
And, boy, saw you, when through the forest we
Two came, his name and mine on many a tree
Carved; here, beyond the lake's slow-muffled tread,
In sand his name and mine I've also read.
Yonder's the isle in search whereof we came;
The white waves wrap it in a sheet of flame,
And yonder huddling blackness draweth nigh—
The faery ship that swims athwart the sky.
Antonio, if I return no more,
Then bid them raise my statue on the shore;
Here where the round waves come, here let them build,
Here, facing to the lake, and no name gild;
A white, dumb thing of tears, here let it stand,
Between the lonely forest and the sand.
The boat draws near and near. You heed me not!
And when the summer's deep, then to this spot
The Arcadians bring, and bid the stone be raised
As I am standing now—as though I gazed,
One hand brow-shading, far across the night,
And one arm pointing thus, in marble white.
And once a-year let the Arcadians come,
And 'neath it sit, and of the woven sum
Of human sorrow let them moralize;
And let them tell sad histories, till their eyes
All swim with tears.
The faery boat's at hand;
You must be gone; the rolling grains of sand
Are 'neath its prow, and crushing shells.
And let the tale be mournful each one tells.
I would have gone also; but far away
The faery thing flew with her o'er the gray
Slow waters, and the boat and maiden sink
Away from me where mists of evening drink
To ease their world-old thirst along the brink
Of sword-blue waves of calm; while o'er head blink
The mobs of stars in gold and green and blue,
Piercing the quivering waters through and through,
The ageless sentinels who hold their watch
O'er grief. The world drinks sorrow from the beams
And penetration of their eyes.
Where yonder blotch
Of lilac o'er the pulsing water gleams,
Once more those shepherds come. Mayhap some mirth
I'll have. Oh, absent one, 'tis not for dearth
Of grief. And if they say, ‘Antonio laughed,’
Say then,—‘A popinjay before grief's shaft
Pierced through, chattering from habit in the sun,
Till his last wretchedness was o'er and done.’
Antonio!
We have resolved to fight.
To yonder isle, where never sail was furled,
From whose green banks no living thing may rove,
And see again the happy woodland light,
Naschina's gone, drawn by a thirst of love,
And that was strange; but this is many a world
More wonderful!
And we have swords.
O night
Of wonders! eve of prodigies!
Draw! draw!
He'll snap his sword.
Raised is the lion's paw.
Cease! Thernot's wounded, cease! They will not heed.
Fierce thrust! A tardy blossom had the seed,
But heavy fruit. How swift the argument
Of those steel tongues! Crash, swords! Well thrust! Well bent
Aside!—
The wild horns told Almintor's end,
And of Naschina's now they tell—rend! rend!
Oh, heart! Her dirge! With rushing arms the waves
Cast on the sound, on, on. This night of graves,
The spinning stars—the toiling sea—whirl round
My sinking brain!—Cease!—Cease! Heard ye yon sound?
The dirge of her ye love. Cease!—Cease!
        What do you weave so fair and bright?
        The cloak I weave of Sorrow.
            Oh, lovely to see in all men's sight
        Shall be the cloak of Sorrow,
            In all men's sight.
        What do you build with sails for flight?
        A boat I build for Sorrow.
            Oh, swift on the seas all day and night
        Saileth the rover Sorrow,
            All day and night.
        What do you weave with wool so white?
        The sandals these of Sorrow.
            Soundless shall be the footfall light,
        In each man's ears, of Sorrow,
            Sudden and light.
What are the voices that in flowery ways
Have clothed their tongues with song of songless days?
            They are the flowers' guardian sprites;
            With streaming hair as wandering lights
            They passed a-tiptoe everywhere,
            And never heard of grief or care
            Until this morn. The sky with wrack
            Was banded as an adder's back,
            And they were sitting round a pool.
            At their feet the waves in rings
            Gently shook their moth-like wings;
            For there came an air-breath cool
            From the ever-moving pinions
            Of the happy flower minions.
            But a sudden melancholy
            Filled them as they sat together;
            Now their songs are mournful wholly
            As they go with drooping feather.
            O Lady, thou whose vestiture of green
            Is rolled as verdant smoke! O thou whose face
            Is worn as though with fire! O goblin queen,
            Lead me, I pray thee, to the statued place!
            Fair youth, along a wandering way
            I've led thee here, and as a wheel
            We turned around the place alway,
            Lest on thine heart the stony seal
            As on those other hearts were laid.
            Behold the brazen-gated glade!
Oh, let me pass! The spells from off the heart
Of my sad hunter-friend will all depart
If on his lips the enchanted flower be laid.
Oh, let me pass!
That flower none
            Who seek may find, save only one,
            A shepherdess long years foretold;
            And even she shall never hold
            The flower, save some thing be found
            To die for her in air or ground.
            And none there is; if such there were,
            E'en then, before her shepherd hair
            Had felt the island breeze, my lore
            Had driven her forth, for evermore
            To wander by the bubbling shore,
            Laughter-lipped, but for her brain
            A guerdon of deep-rooted pain,
            And in her eyes a lightless stare;
            For, if severed from the root
            The enchanted flower were;
            From my wizard island lair,
            And the happy wingèd day,
            I, as music that grows mute
            On a girl's forgotten lute,
            Pass away—
Your eyes are all aflash. She is not here.
I'd kill her if she were. Nay, do not fear!
With you I am all gentleness; in truth,
There's little I'd refuse thee, dearest youth.
It is my whim! bid some attendant sprite
Of thine cry over wold and water white,
That one shall die, unless one die for her.
'Tis but to see if anything will stir
For such a call. Let the wild word be cried
As though she whom you fear had crossed the wide
Swift lake.
A very little thing that is
And shall be done, if you will deign to kiss
My lips, fair youth.
It shall be as you ask.
Forth! forth! O spirits, ye have heard your task!
We are gone!
Fair shepherd, as we wandered hither,
My words were all: ‘Here no loves wane and wither,
Where dream-fed passion is and peace encloses,
Where revel of foxglove is and revel of roses.’
My words were all: ‘O whither, whither, whither
Wilt roam away from this rich island rest?’
I bid thee stay, renouncing thy mad quest,
But thou wouldst not, for then thou wert unblest
And stony-hearted; now thou hast grown kind,
And thou wilt stay. All thought of what they find
In the far world will vanish from thy mind,
Till thou rememberest only how the sea
Has fenced us round for all eternity.
But why art thou so silent? Didst thou hear
I laughed?
And why is that a thing so dear?
From thee I snatched it; e'en the fay that trips
At morn, and with her feet each cobweb rends,
Laughs not. It dwells alone on mortal lips:
Thou'lt teach me laughing, and I'll teach thee peace
Here where laburnum hangs her golden fleece;
For peace and laughter have been seldom friends.
But, for a boy, how long thine hair has grown!
Long citron coils that hang around thee, blown
In shadowy dimness. To be fair as thee
I'd give my fairy fleetness, though I be
Far fleeter than the million-footed sea.
        By wood antique, by wave and waste,
    Where cypress is and oozy pine,
        Did I on quivering pinions haste,
    And all was quiet round me spread,
    As quiet as the clay-cold dead.
    I cried the thing you bade me cry.
        An owl, who in an alder tree
    Had hooted for an hundred years,
        Upraised his voice, and hooted me.
    E'en though his wings were plumeless stumps,
        And all his veins had near run dry,
    Forth from the hollow alder trunk
        He hooted as I wandered by.
    And so with wolf, and boar, and steer.
        And one alone of all would hark,
    A man who by a dead man stood.
        A starlit rapier, half blood-dark,
    Was broken in his quivering hand.
        As blossoms, when the winds of March
    Hold festival across the land,
    He shrank before my voice, and stood
        Low bowed and dumb upon the sand.
    A foolish word thou gavest me!
        For each within himself hath all
    The world within his folded heart—
        His temple and his banquet hall;
    And who will throw his mansion down
        Thus for another's bugle call!
But why this whim of thine? A strange unrest,
Alien as cuckoo in a robin's nest,
Is in thy face, and lips together pressed;
And why so silent? I would have thee speak.
Soon wilt thou smile, for here the winds are weak
As moths with broken wings, and as we sit
The heavens all star throbbing are alit.
But art thou happy?
Let me gaze on thee,
At arm's length thus; till dumb eternity
Has rolled away the stars and dried the sea
I could gaze, gaze upon thine eyes of grey;
Gaze on till ragged Time himself decay.
Ah! you are weeping; here should all grief cease.
But art thou happy?
Youth, I am at peace.
But art thou happy?
Those grey eyes of thine,
Have they ne'er seen the eyes of lynx or kine,
Or aught remote; or hast thou never heard
'Mid babbling leaves a wandering song-rapt bird
Going the forest through, with flutings weak;
Or hast thou never seen, with visage meek,
A hoary hunter leaning on his bow,
To watch thee pass? Yet deeper than men know
These are at peace.
            Sad lady, cease!
        I rose, I rose
            From the dim wood's foundation—
        I rose, I rose
            Where in white exultation
        The long lily blows,
        And the wan wave that lingers
            From flood-time encloses
        With infantine fingers
            The roots of the roses.
        Now here I come winging;
            I there had been keeping
            A mouse from his sleeping,
        With shouting and singing.
How sped thy quest? This prelude we'll not hear it.
I' faith thou ever wast a wordy spirit!
    A wriggling thing on the white lake moved,
        As the canker-worm on a milk-white rose;
    And down I came as a falcon swoops
        When his sinewy wings together close.
    I 'lit by the thing, 'twas a shepherd-boy,
        Who, swimming, sought the island lone;
    Within his clenchèd teeth a sword.
        I heard the dreadful monotone
    The water-serpent sings his heart
    Before a death. O'er wave and bank
        I cried the words you bid me cry.
    The shepherd raised his arms and sank,
        His rueful spirit fluttered by.
I must bestir myself. Both dead for me!
Both dead!—No time for thinking.
I am she,
That shepherdess: arise, and bring to me,
In silence, that famed flower of wizardry,
For I am mightier now by far than thee,
And faded now is all thy wondrous art.
I see within a cloven rock dispart
A scarlet bloom. Why raisest thou, pale one,
O famous dying minion of the sun,
Thy flickering hand? What mean the lights that rise
As light of triumph in thy goblin eyes—
In thy wan face?
Hear, daughter of the days.
Behold the loving loveless flower of lone ways,
Well-nigh immortal in this charmèd clime,
Thou shalt outlive thine amorous happy time,
And dead as are the lovers of old rhyme
Shall be the hunter-lover of thy youth.
Yet evermore, through all thy days of ruth,
Shall grow thy beauty and thy dreamless truth;
As a hurt leopard fills with ceaseless moan
And aimless wanderings the woodlands lone,
Thy soul shall be, though pitiless and bright
It is, yet shall it fail thee day and night
Beneath the burden of the infinite,
In those far years, O daughter of the days.
And when thou hast these things for ages felt,
The red squirrel shall rear her young where thou hast dwelt—
Ah, woe is me! I go from sun and shade,
And the joy of the streams where long-limbed herons wade;
And never any more the wide-eyed bands
Of the pied panther-kittens from my hands
Shall feed. I shall not in the evenings hear
Again the woodland laughter, and the clear
Wild cries, grown sweet with lulls and lingerings long.
I fade, and shall not see the mornings wake,
A-fluttering the painted populace of lake
And sedgy stream, and in each babbling brake
And hollow lulling the young winds with song.
I dream!—I cannot die!—not die! No! no!
I hurl away these all unfaery fears.
Have I not seen a thousand seasons ebb and flow
The tide of stars? Have I not seen a thousand years
The summers fling their scents? Ah, subtile and slow,
The warmth of life is chilling, and the shadows grow
More dark beneath the poplars, where yon owl
Lies torn and rotting. The fierce kestrel birds
Slew thee, poor sibyl: comrades thou and I;
For ah, our lives were but two starry words
Shouted a moment 'tween the earth and sky.
Oh, death is horrible! and foul, foul, foul!
I know not of the things thou speakest. What
Of him on yonder brazen-gated spot,
By thee spell-bound?
Thou shalt know more:
Meeting long hence the phantom herdsman, king
Of the dread woods; along their russet floor
His sleuth-hounds follow every fairy thing.
Before I am too weak, oh let me fly,
Fierce mortal, and crouched low beside the lake
In a far stillness of the island die.
Will he have happiness? Great sobs her being shake.
    A man has the fields of heaven,
        But soulless a fairy dies,
    As a leaf that is old, and withered, and cold,
        When the wintry vapours rise.
    Soon shall our wings be stilled,
        And our laughter over and done:
    So let us dance where the yellow lance
        Of the barley shoots in the sun.
    So let us dance on the fringèd waves,
        And shout at the wisest owls
    In their downy caps, and startle the naps
        Of the dreaming water-fowls,
    And fight for the black sloe-berries,
        For soulless a fairy dies,
    As a leaf that is old, and withered, and cold,
        When the wintry vapours rise.
    A man has the fields of heaven,
        But soulless a fairy dies,
    As a leaf that is old, and withered, and cold,
        When the wintry vapours rise.
    Soon shall our wings be stilled,
        And our laughter over and done:
    So let us dance where the yellow lance
        Of the barley shoots in the sun.
    So let us dance on the fringèd waves,
        And shout at the wisest owls
    In their downy caps, and startle the naps
        Of the dreaming water-fowls,
    And fight for the black sloe-berries,
        For soulless a fairy dies,
    As a leaf that is old, and withered, and cold,
        When the wintry vapours rise.
I plucked her backwards by her dress of green.
To question her—oh no, I did not fear,
Because St. Joseph's image hangeth here
Upon my necklace. But the goblin queen
Faded and vanished: nothing now is seen,
Saving a green frog dead upon the grass.
As figures moving mirrored in a glass,
The singing shepherds, too, have passed away.
O Arcady, O Arcady, this day
A deal of evil and of change hath crossed
Thy peace. Ah, now I'll wake these sleepers, lost
And woe-begone. For them no evil day!

[To Almintor] O wake! wake! wake! for soft as a bee sips
The fairy flower lies upon thy lips.
I slept, 'twas sultry, and scarce circling shook
The falling hawthorn bloom. By mere and brook
The otters dreaming lay. Naschina!
Ay!
Behold the hapless sleepers standing by.
I will dissolve away the faeries' guile;
So be thou still, dear heart, a little while!

[To the Second Sleeper] Old warrior, wake! for soft as a bee sips
The fairy blossom lies upon thy lips.
Have I slept long?
Long years.
With hungry heart
Doth still the Wanderer rove? With all his ships
I saw him from sad Dido's shores depart,
Enamoured of the waves' impetuous lips.
Those twain are dust. Wake! Light as a bee sips
The fairy blossom lies upon thy lips;
Seafarer, wake!
Was my sleep long?
Long years.
A rover I who come from where men's ears
Love storm and stained with mist the new moons flare.
Doth still the man whom each stern rover fears—
The austere Arthur—rule from Uther's chair?
He is long dead.
Wake! soft as a bee sips
The goblin flower lieth on thy lips.
Was my sleep long, O youth?
Long, long and deep.
As here I came I saw god Pan. He played
An oaten pipe unto a listening faun,
Whose insolent eyes unused to tears would weep.
Doth he still dwell within the woody shade,
And rule the shadows of the eve and dawn?
Nay, he is gone. Wake! wake! as a bee sips
The fairy blossom broods upon thy lips.
Sleeper, awake!
How long my sleep?
Unnumbered
The years of goblin sleep.
Ah! while I slumbered,
How have the years in Troia flown away?
Are still the Achaians' tented chiefs at bay?
Where rise the walls majestical above,
There dwells a little fair-haired maid I love.
She is long ages dust.
Ah, woe is me!
Youth, here will we abide, and be thou king
Of this lake-nurtured isle!
Let thy king be
Yon archer, he who hath the halcyon's wing
As flaming minstrel-word upon his crest.
Clear-browed Arcadian, thou shalt be our king!
O, my Almintor, noble was thy quest;
Yea, noble and most knightly hath it been.
Clear-browed Arcadian, thou shalt be our king!
Until we die within the charmèd ring
Of these star-shuddering skies, you are the queen.



I went out alone
To sing a song or two,
My fancy on a man,
And you know who.
Another came in sight
That on a stick relied
To hold himself upright:
I sat and cried.
And that was all my song—
When everything is told,
Saw I an old man young
Or young man old?



That lover of a night
Came when he would,
Went in the dawning light
Whether I would or no;
Men come, men go:
All things remain in God.
Banners choke the sky;
Men-at-arms tread;
Armoured horses neigh
Where the great battle was
In the narrow pass:
All things remain in God.
Before their eyes a house
That from childhood stood
Uninhabited, ruinous,
Suddenly lit up
From door to top:
All things remain in God.
I had wild Jack for a lover;
Though like a road
That men pass over
My body makes no moan
But sings on:
All things remain in God.



I found that ivory image there
Dancing with her chosen youth,
But when he wound her coal-black hair
As though to strangle her, no scream
Or bodily movement did I dare,
Eyes under eyelids did so gleam:
Love is like the lion's tooth.
When she, and though some said she played
I said that she had danced heart's truth,
Drew a knife to strike him dead,
I could but leave him to his fate;
For, no matter what is said,
They had all that had their hate:
Love is like the lion's tooth.
Did he die or did she die?
Seemed to die or died they both?
God be with the times when I
Cared not a thraneen for what chanced
So that I had the limbs to try
Such a dance as there was danced—
Love is like the lion's tooth.



‘She will change,’ I cried,
‘Into a withered crone.’
The heart in my side,
That so still had lain,
In noble rage replied
And beat upon the bone:
‘Uplift those eyes and throw
Those glances unafraid:
She would as bravely show
Did all the fabric fade;
No withered crone I saw
Before the world was made.’
Abashed by that report,
For the heart cannot lie,
I knelt in the dirt.
And all shall bend the knee
To my offended heart
Until it pardon me.



My dear, my dear, I know
More than another
What makes your heart beat so;
Not even your own mother
Can know it as I know,
Who broke my heart for her
When the wild thought,
That she denies
And has forgot,
Set all her blood astir
And glittered in her eyes.



First I greet McCartan, revolutionary leader.
He, disguised as a sailor before the mast,
Travelled to and fro across the Atlantic,
He, though but a landsman, went to the mast-head;
Then Farrell, steel king, master of men,
Among his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren;
Then that old Abbey actor, Dudley Digges,
Now a notable man on stage and on screen;
Then those others that are but names or names
At the bottom of a letter, fifty men.



I passed along the water's edge below the humid trees,
My spirit rocked in evening light, the rushes round my knees,
My spirit rocked in sleep and sighs; and saw the moorfowl pace
All dripping on a grassy slope, and saw them cease to chase
Each other round in circles, and heard the eldest speak:
Who holds the world between His bill and made us strong or weak
Is an undying moorfowl, and He lives beyond the sky.
The rains are from His dripping wing, the moonbeams from His eye.
I passed a little further on and heard a lotus talk:
Who made the world and ruleth it, He hangeth on a stalk,
For I am in His image made, and all this tinkling tide
Is but a sliding drop of rain between His petals wide.
A little way within the gloom a roebuck raised his eyes
Brimful of starlight, and he said: The Stamper of the Skies,
He is a gentle roebuck; for how else, I pray, could He
Conceive a thing so sad and soft, a gentle thing like me?
I passed a little further on and heard a peacock say:
Who made the grass and made the worms and made my feathers gay,
He is a monstrous peacock, and He waveth all the night
His languid tail above us, lit with myriad spots of light.



‘Would it were anything but merely voice!’
The No King cried who after that was King,
Because he had not heard of anything
That balanced with a word is more than noise;
Yet Old Romance being kind, let him prevail
Somewhere or somehow that I have forgot,
Though he'd but cannon—Whereas we that had thought
To have lit upon as clean and sweet a tale
Have been defeated by that pledge you gave
In momentary anger long ago;
And I that have not your faith, how shall I know
That in the blinding light beyond the grave
We'll find so good a thing as that we have lost?
The hourly kindness, the day's common speech,
The habitual content of each with each
When neither soul nor body has been crossed.



How should the world be luckier if this house,
Where passion and precision have been one
Time out of mind, became too ruinous
To breed the lidless eye that loves the sun?
And the sweet laughing eagle thoughts that grow
Where wings have memory of wings, and all
That comes of the best knit to the best? Although
Mean roof-trees were the sturdier for its fall,
How should their luck run high enough to reach
The gifts that govern men, and after these
To gradual Time's last gift, a written speech
Wrought of high laughter, loveliness and ease?



‘Because I am mad about women
I am mad about the hills,’
Said that wild old wicked man
Who travels where God wills,
‘Not to die on the straw at home,
Those hands to close these eyes,
That is all I ask, my dear,
From the old man in the skies.’
    Day-break and a candle end.
‘Kind are all your words, my dear,
Do not the rest withhold,
Who can know the year, my dear,
When an old man's blood grows cold.
I have what no young man can have
Because he loves too much.
Words I have that can pierce the heart,
But what can he do but touch?’
    Day-break and a candle end.
Then said she to that wild old man
His stout stick under his hand,
‘Love to give or to withhold
Is not at my command.
I gave it all to an older man
That old man in the skies.
Hands that are busy with His beads
Can never close those eyes.’
    Day-break and a candle end.
‘Go your ways, O go your ways
I choose another mark,
Girls down on the seashore
Who understand the dark;
Bawdy talk for the fishermen
A dance for the fisher lads;
When dark hangs upon the water
They turn down their beds.’
    Day-break and a candle end.
‘A young man in the dark am I
But a wild old man in the light
That can make a cat laugh, or
Can touch by mother wit
Things hid in their marrow bones
From time long passed away,
Hid from all those warty lads
That by their bodies lay.’
    Day-break and a candle end.
‘All men live in suffering
I know as few can know,
Whether they take the upper road
Or stay content on the low,
Rower bent in his row-boat
Or weaver bent at his loom,
Horseman erect upon horseback
Or child hid in the womb.’
    Day-break and a candle end.
‘That some stream of lightning
From the old man in the skies
Can burn out that suffering
No right taught man denies.
But a coarse old man am I,
I choose the second-best,
I forget it all awhile
Upon a woman's breast.’
    Day-break and a candle end.



Parnell came down the road, he said to a cheering man;
‘Ireland shall get her freedom and you still break stone.’



Laughter not time destroyed my voice
And put that crack in it,
And when the moon's pot-bellied
I get a laughing fit,
For that old Madge comes down the lane,
A stone upon her breast,
And a cloak wrapped about the stone,
And she can get no rest
With singing hush and hush-a-bye;
She that has been wild
And barren as a breaking wave
Thinks that the stone's a child.
And Peter that had great affairs
And was a pushing man
Shrieks, ‘I am King of the Peacocks,’
And perches on a stone;
And then I laugh till tears run down
And the heart thumps at my side,
Remembering that her shriek was love
And that he shrieks from pride.



Though nurtured like the sailing moon
In beauty's murderous brood,
She walked awhile and blushed awhile
And on my pathway stood
Until I thought her body bore
A heart of flesh and blood.
But since I laid a hand thereon
And found a heart of stone
I have attempted many things
And not a thing is done,
For every hand is lunatic
That travels on the moon.
She smiled and that transfigured me
And left me but a lout,
Maundering here, and maundering there,
Emptier of thought
Than the heavenly circuit of its stars
When the moon sails out.



We should be hidden from their eyes,
Being but holy shows
And bodies broken like a thorn
Whereon the bleak north blows,
To think of buried Hector
And that none living knows.
The women take so little stock
In what I do or say
They'd sooner leave their cosseting
To hear a jackass bray;
My arms are like the twisted thorn
And yet there beauty lay;
The first of all the tribe lay there
And did such pleasure take—
She who had brought great Hector down
And put all Troy to wreck—
That she cried into this ear,
‘Strike me if I shriek.’



Endure what life God gives and ask no longer span;
Cease to remember the delights of youth, travel-wearied aged man;
Delight becomes death-longing if all longing else be vain.
Even from that delight memory treasures so,
Death, despair, division of families, all entanglements of mankind grow,
As that old wandering beggar and these God-hated children know.
In the long echoing street the laughing dancers throng,
The bride is carried to the bridegroom's chamber through torchlight and tumultuous song;
I celebrate the silent kiss that ends short life or long.
Never to have lived is best, ancient writers say;
Never to have drawn the breath of life, never to have looked into the eye of day;
The second best's a gay goodnight and quickly turn away.



O bid me mount and sail up there
Amid the cloudy wrack,
For Peg and Meg and Paris' love
That had so straight a back,
Are gone away, and some that stay
Have changed their silk for sack.
Were I but there and none to hear
I'd have a peacock cry,
For that is natural to a man
That lives in memory,
Being all alone I'd nurse a stone
And sing it lullaby.



I have old women's secrets now
That had those of the young;
Madge tells me what I dared not think
When my blood was strong,
And what had drowned a lover once
Sounds like an old song.
Though Margery is stricken dumb
If thrown in Madge's way,
We three make up a solitude;
For none alive to-day
Can know the stories that we know
Or say the things we say:
How such a man pleased women most
Of all that are gone,
How such a pair loved many years
And such a pair but one,
Stories of the bed of straw
Or the bed of down.