Well then, poor G lies under ground!
    So there's an end of honest Jack.
So little Justice here he found,
    'Tis ten to one he'll ne'er come back.



Honour and Wealth, the Joys we seek, deny
By their Encrease, and their Variety;
And more confound our Choice than satisfie:
Officious, bold Disturbances they grow,
That interrupt our Peace, and work our Woe:
Make Life a Scene of Pain, and constant Toil,
And all our Days in fresh Pursuits embroil.
But if to Solitude we turn our Eyes,
To View a thousand real Blessings rise;
Pleasures sincere, and unallay'd with Pain,
An easie Purchase, but an ample Gain!
There Censure, Envy, Malice, Scorn, or Hate,
Cannot affect Us in our tranquil State:
Those Cankers that on busie Honour prey,
And all their Spight on active Pomp display.
Alone, remov'd from Grandeur and from Strife,
And ev'ry Curse that loads a publick Life,
In Safety, Innocence, and full Repose,
Man the true Worth of his Creation knows.
Luxurious Nature's Wealth in Thought surveys,
And meditates her Charms, and sings her Praise.
To him, with humble Privacy content,
Life is, in Courts, and gawdy Pride, mis-spent.
To him, the Rural Cottage does afford
What he prefers to the Patrician Board:
Such wholsome Foods as Nature's Wants supply,
And ne'er reproach him with his Luxury.
He traverses the blooming verdant Mead,
Nor envies those that on rich Carpets tread.
Basks in the Sun, then to the Shades retires,
And takes a Shelter from his pointed Fires.
Wak'd by the Morning-Cock, unseals his Eyes,
And sees the Rusticks to their Labours rise;
And in the Ev'ning, when those Labours cease,
Beholds them cheary eat the Bread of Peace:
Sees no foul Discords at their Banquets bred,
Nor Emulations, nor Disgusts succeed:
But all is quiet, jocund, and serene,
A Type of Paradise, the Rural Scene!



Mark by what wretched steps Great  grows,
From dirt and sea-weed as proud Venice rose;
One equal course how Guilt and Greatness ran,
And all that rais'd the Hero sunk the Man.
Now Europe's Lawrels on his brows behold,
But stain'd with Blood, or ill exchang'd for Gold.
What wonder tryumphs never turn'd his brain
Fill'd with mean fear to lose mean joy to gain.
Hence see him modest free from pride or shew
Some Vices were too high but none too low
Go then indulge thy age in Wealth and ease
Stretch'd on the spoils of plunder'd palaces
Alas what wealth, which no one act of fame
E'er taught to shine, or sanctified from shame
Alas what ease those furies of thy life
Ambition Av'rice and th'imperious Wife.
The trophy'd Arches, story'd Halls invade,
And haunt his slumbers in the pompous Shade.
No joy no pleasure from successes past
Timid and therefore treacherous to the last
Hear him in accents of a pining Ghost
Sigh, with his Captive for his ofspring lost
Behold him loaded with unreverend years
Bath'd in unmeaning unrepentant tears
Dead, by regardless Vet'rans born on high
Dry pomps and Obsequies without a sigh.
Who now his fame or fortune shall prolong
In vain his consort bribes for venal song
No son nor Grandson shall the line sustain
The husband toils the Adulterer sweats in vain:
In vain a nations zeal a senate's cares
“Madness and lust” (said God) “be you his heirs”
“O'er his vast heaps in drunkenness of pride
“Go wallow Harpyes and your prey divide”
Alas! not dazled with his Noontide ray,
Compute the Morn and Evening of his Day:
The whole amount of that enormous Fame
A Tale! that blends the Glory with the Shame!



You wonder Who this Thing has writ,
So full of Fibs, so void of Wit?
Lord! never ask who thus could serve ye?
Who can it be but Fibster Hy.



Fraternal Rage, the guilty Thebes alarms,
Th'alternate reign destroy'd by impious arms,
Demand our song; a sacred fury fires
My ravish'd breast, and all the Muse inspires.
O Goddess, say, shall I deduce my rhimes
From the dire nation in its early times,
Europa's rape, Agenor's stern decree,
And Cadmus searching round the spacious sea?
How with the serpent's teeth he sow'd the soil,
And reap'd an Iron harvest of his toil?
Or how from joining stones the city sprung,
While to his harp divine Amphion sung?
Or shall I Juno's hate to Thebes resound,
Whose fatal rage th'unhappy Monarch found;
The sire against the son his arrows drew,
O'er the wide fields the furious mother flew,
And while her arms her second hope contain,
Sprung from the rocks and plung'd into the main.
But wave whate'er to Cadmus may belong,
And fix, O Muse! the barrier of thy song
At Oedipus—from his disasters trace
The long confusions of his guilty race.
Nor yet attempt to stretch thy bolder wing,
And mighty Cæsar's conqu'ring eagles sing;
How twice he tam'd proud Ister's rapid flood,
While Dacian mountains stream'd with barb'rous blood,
Twice taught the Rhine beneath his laws to roll,
And stretch'd his empire to the frozen Pole,
Or long before, with early valour strove
In youthful arms t'assert the cause of Jove.
And Thou, great Heir of all thy father's fame,
Encrease of glory to the Latian name!
Oh bless thy Rome with an eternal reign,
Nor let desiring worlds intreat in vain.
What tho' the stars contract their heav'nly space,
And croud their shining ranks to yield thee place;
Tho' all the skies, ambitious of thy sway,
Conspire to court thee from our world away;
Tho' Phœbus longs to mix his rays with thine,
And in thy glories more serenely shine;
Tho' Jove himself no less content would be,
To part his throne and share his heav'n with thee;
Yet stay, great Cæsar! and vouchsafe to reign
O'er the wide earth, and o'er the watry main;
Resign to Jove his empire of the skies,
And people heav'n with Roman Deities.
The time will come, when a diviner flame
Shall warm my breast to sing of Cæsar's fame:
Meanwhile permit, that my preluding Muse
In Theban wars an humbler theme may chuse:
Of furious hate surviving death, she sings,
A fatal throne to two contending Kings,
A fun'ral flames, that parting wide in air
Express the discord of the souls they bear:
Of towns dispeopled, and the wand'ring ghosts
Of Kings unbury'd on the wasted coasts;
When Dirce's fountain blush'd with Grecian blood,
And Thetis, near Ismenos' swelling flood,
With dread beheld the rolling surges sweep
In heaps, his slaughter'd sons into the deep.
What Hero, Clio! wilt thou first relate?
The Rage of Tydeus, or the Prophet's fate?
Or how with hills of slain on ev'ry side,
Hippomedon repell'd the hostile tyde?
Or how the  Youth with ev'ry grace adorn'd,
Untimely fell, to be for ever mourn'd?
Then to fierce Capaneus thy verse extend,
And sing, with horror, his prodigious end.
Now wretched Oedipus, depriv'd of sight,
Led a long death in everlasting night;
But while he dwells where not a chearful ray
Can pierce the darkness, and abhors the day;
The clear, reflecting mind, presents his sin
In frightful views, and makes it day within;
Returning thoughts in endless circles roll,
And thousand furies haunt his guilty soul.
The wretch then lifted to th'unpitying skies
Those empty orbs from whence he tore his eyes,
Whose wounds yet fresh, with bloody hands he strook,
While from his breast these dreadful accents broke.
Ye Gods that o'er the gloomy regions reign
Where guilty spirits feel eternal pain;
Thou, sable Styx! whose livid streams are roll'd
Thro' dreary coasts, which I tho' blind behold:
Tisiphone, that oft' hast heard my pray'r,
Assist, if Oedipus deserve thy care!
If you receiv'd me from Jocasta's womb,
And nurs'd the hope of mischiefs yet to come:
If leaving Polybus, I took my way
To Cyrrha's temple, on that fatal day,
When by the son the trembling father dy'd,
Where the three roads the Phocian fields divide:
If I the Sphynx's riddles durst explain,
Taught by thy self to win the promis'd reign:
If wretched I, by baleful furies led,
With monstrous mixture stain'd my mother's bed,
For hell and thee begot an impious brood,
And with full lust those horrid joys renew'd:
Then self-condemn'd to shades of endless night,
Forc'd from these orbs the bleeding balls of sight.
Oh hear, and aid the vengeance I require,
If worthy thee, and what thou might'st inspire!
My sons their old, unhappy sire despise,
Spoil'd of his kingdom, and depriv'd of eyes;
Guideless I wander, unregarded mourn,
While these exalt their sceptres o'er my urn,
These sons, ye Gods! who with flagitious pride,
Insult my darkness, and my groans deride.
Art thou a Father, unregarding Jove!
And sleeps thy thunder in the realms above?
Thou Fury, then, some lasting curse entail,
Which o'er their childrens children shall prevail:
Place on their heads that crown distain'd with gore,
Which these dire hands from my slain father tore;
Go, and a parent's heavy curses bear;
Break all the bonds of nature, and prepare
Their kindred souls to mutual hate and war.
Give them to dare, what I might wish to see
Blind as I am, some glorious villany!
Soon shalt thou find, if thou but arm their hands,
Their ready guilt preventing thy commands:
Could'st thou some great, proportion'd mischief frame,
They'd prove the father from whose loins they came.
The Fury heard, while on Cacytus' brink
Her snakes unty'd, sulphureous waters drink;
But at the summons, roll'd her eyes around,
And snatch'd the starting serpents from the ground.
Not half so swiftly shoots along in air,
The gliding light'ning, or descending star.
Thro' crouds of airy shades she wing'd her flight,
And dark dominions of the silent night;
Swift as she pass'd, the flitting ghosts withdrew,
And the pale spectres trembled at her view:
To th'iron gates of Tenarus she flies,
There spreads her dusky pinions to the skies.
The day beheld, and sickning at the sight,
Veil'd her fair glories in the shades of night.
Affrighted Atlas, on the distant shore,
Trembl'd, and shook the heav'ns and gods he bore.
Now from beneath Malea's airy height
Aloft she sprung, and steer'd to Thebes her flight;
With eager speed the well-known journey took,
Nor here regrets the hell she late forsook.
A hundred snakes her gloomy visage shade,
A hundred serpents guard her horrid head,
In her sunk eye-balls dreadful meteors glow,
Such rays from Phœbe's bloody circle flow,
When lab'ring with strong charms, she shoots from high
A fiery gleam, and reddens all the sky.
Blood stain'd her cheeks, and from her mouth there came
Blue steaming poisons, and a length of flame;
From ev'ry blast of her contagious breath,
Famine and drought proceed, and plagues, and death:
A robe obscene was o'er her shoulders thrown,
A dress by Fates and Furies worn alone:
She toss'd her meagre arms; her better hand
In waving circles whirl'd a fun'ral brand;
A serpent from her left was seen to rear
His flaming crest, and lash the yielding air.
But when the Fury took her stand on high,
Where vast Cythæron's top salutes the sky,
A hiss from all the snaky tire went round:
The dreadful signal all the rocks rebound,
And thro' th'Achaian cities send the sound.
Oete, with high Parnassus, heard the voice;
Eurota's banks remurmur'd to the noise;
Again Leucothoë shook at these alarms,
And press'd Palæmon closer in her arms.
Headlong from thence the glowing Fury springs,
And o'er the Theban palace spreads her wings,
Once more invades the guilty dome, and shrouds
Its bright pavilions in a veil of clouds.
Strait with the  rage of all their race possess'd,
Stung to the soul, the brothers start from rest,
And all the furies wake within their breast.
Their tortur'd minds repining Envy tears,
And Hate, engender'd by suspicious fears;
And sacred Thirst of sway; and all the ties
Of Nature broke; and royal Perjuries;
And impotent Desire to reign alone,
That scorns the dull reversion of a throne;
Each would the sweets of sovereign rule devour,
While Discord waits upon divided pow'r.
As stubborn steers by brawny plowmen broke,
And join'd reluctant to the galling yoke,
Alike disdain with servile necks to bear
Th'unwonted weight, or drag the crooked share,
But rend the reins, and bound a diff'rent way,
And all the furrows in confusion lay:
Such was the discord of the royal pair,
Whom fury drove precipitate to war.
In vain the chiefs contriv'd a specious way,
To govern Thebes by their alternate sway;
Unjust decree! while this enjoys the state,
That mourns in exile his unequal fate,
And the short monarch of a hasty year
Foresees with anguish his returning heir.
Thus did the league their impious arms restrain,
But scarce subsisted to the second reign.
Yet then, no proud aspiring piles were rais'd,
No fretted roofs with polish'd metals blaz'd,
No labour'd columns in long order plac'd,
No Grecian stone the pompous arches grac'd;
No nightly bands in glitt'ring armour wait
Before the sleepless Tyrant's guarded gate:
No chargers then were wrought in burnish'd gold,
Nor silver vases took the forming mold,
Nor gems on bowls emboss'd were seen to shine,
Blaze on the brims, and sparkle in the wine—
Say, wretched rivals! what provokes your rage?
Say to what end your impious arms engage?
Not all bright Phœbus views in early morn,
Or when his evening beams the west adorn,
When the south glows with his meridian ray,
And the cold north receives a fainter day;
For crimes like these, not all those realms suffice,
Were all those realms the guilty victor's prize!
But fortune now (the lots of empire thrown)
Decrees to proud Etheocles the crown:
What joys, oh Tyrant! swell'd thy soul that day,
When all were slaves thou could'st around survey,
Pleas'd to behold unbounded pow'r thy own,
And singly fill a fear'd and envy'd throne!
But the vile Vulgar, ever discontent,
Their growing fears in secret murmurs vent;
Still prone to change, tho' still the slaves of state,
And sure the monarch whom they have, to hate;
New lords they madly make, then tamely bear,
And softly curse the Tyrants whom they fear.
And one of those who groan beneath the sway
Of Kings impos'd, and grudgingly obey,
(Whom envy to the great, and vulgar spight
With scandal arm'd, th'ignoble mind's delight,)
Exclaim'd—O Thebes! for thee what fates remain,
What woes attend this inauspicious reign?
Must we, alas! our doubtful necks prepare,
Each haughty master's yoke by turns to bear,
And still to change whom chang'd we still must fear?
These now controul a wretched people's fate,
These can divide, and these reverse the state:
Ev'n Fortune rules no more:—O servile land,
Where exil'd tyrants still by turns command!
Thou Sire of Gods and men, imperial Jove!
Is this th'eternal doom decreed above?
On thy own offspring hast thou fix'd this fate,
From the first birth of our unhappy state;
When banish'd Cadmus wand'ring o'er the main,
For lost Europa search'd the world in vain,
And fated in Bœotian fields to found
A rising empire on a foreign ground,
First rais'd our walls on that ill-omen'd plain,
Where earth-born brothers were by brothers slain?
What lofty looks th'unrival'd monarch bears!
How all the tyrant in his face appears!
What sullen fury clouds his scornful brow!
Gods! how his eyes with threatning ardour glow!
Can this imperious lord forget to reign,
Quit all his state, descend, and serve again?
Yet, who, before, more popularly bow'd,
Who more propitious to the suppliant croud,
Patient of right, familiar in the throne?
What wonder then? he was not then alone.
Oh wretched we, a vile, submissive train,
Fortune's tame fools, and slaves in ev'ry reign!
As when two winds with rival force contend,
This way and that, the wav'ring sails they bend,
While freezing Boreas and black Eurus blow,
Now here, now there, the reeling vessel throw:
Thus on each side, alas! our tott'ring state
Feels all the fury of resistless fate,
And doubtful still, and still distracted stands,
While that Prince threatens, and while this commands.
And now th'almighty Father of the Gods
Convenes a council in the blest abodes:
Far in the bright recesses of the skies,
High o'er the rowling heav'ns, a mansion lies,
Whence, far below, the Gods at once survey
The realms of rising and declining day,
And all th'extended space of earth, and air, and sea.
Full in the midst, and on a starry throne,
The Majesty of heav'n superior shone;
Serene he look'd, and gave an awful  nod.
And all the trembling spheres confess'd the God.
At Jove's assent, the deities around
In solemn state the consistory crown'd:
Next a long order of inferior pow'rs
Ascend from hills, and plains, and shady bow'rs;
Those from whose urns the rowling rivers flow;
And those that give the wand'ring winds to blow;
Here all their rage, and ev'n their murmurs cease,
And sacred silence reigns, and universal peace.
A shining synod of majestic Gods
Gilds with new lustre the divine abodes,
Heav'n seems improv'd with a superior ray,
And the bright arch reflects a double day.
The Monarch then his solemn silence broke,
The still creation listen'd while he spoke,
Each sacred accent bears eternal weight,
And each irrevocable word is Fate.
How long shall man the wrath of heav'n defy,
And force unwilling vengeance from the sky!
Oh race confed'rate into crimes, that prove
Triumphant o'er th'eluded rage of Jove!
This weary'd arm can scarce the bolt sustain,
And unregarded thunder rolls in vain:
Th'o'erlabour'd Cyclop from his task retires;
Th'Æolian forge exhausted of its fires.
For this, I suffer'd Phœbus' steeds to stray,
And the mad ruler to misguide the day,
When the wide earth to heaps of ashes turn'd,
And heav'n itself the wand'ring chariot burn'd.
For this, my brother of the wat'ry reign
Releas'd th'impetuous sluices of the main:
But flames consum'd, and billows rag'd in vain.
Two races now, ally'd to Jove, offend;
To punish these, see Jove himself descend!
The Theban Kings their line from Cadmus trace,
From godlike Perseus those of Argive race.
Unhappy Cadmus' fate who does not know?
And the long series of succeeding woe:
How oft' the Furies, from the deeps of night,
Arose, and mix'd with men in mortal fight:
Th'exulting mother, stain'd with filial blood;
The savage hunter, and the haunted wood;
The direful banquet why should I proclaim,
And crimes that grieve the trembling Gods to name?
E'er I recount the sins of these profane,
The sun would sink into the western main,
And rising gild the radiant east again.
Have we not seen (the blood of Laius shed)
The murd'ring son ascend his parent's bed,
Thro' violated nature force his way,
And stain the sacred womb where once he lay?
Yet now in darkness and despair he groans,
And for the crimes of guilty fate attones;
His sons with scorn their eyeless father view,
Insult his wounds, and make them bleed anew.
Thy curse, oh Oedipus, just heav'n alarms,
And sets th'avenging thunderer in arms.
I from the root thy guilty race will tear,
And give the nations to the waste of war.
Adrastus soon, with Gods averse, shall join,
In dire alliance with the Theban line;
Hence strife shall rise, and mortal war succeed;
The guilty realms of Tantalus shall bleed;
Fix'd is their doom; this all-remembring breast
Yet harbours vengeance for the tyrant's feast.
He said; and thus the Queen of heav'n return'd;
(With sudden grief her lab'ring bosom burn'd)
Must I whose cares Phoroneus' tow'rs defend,
Must I, oh Jove, in bloody wars contend?
Thou know'st those regions my protection claim,
Glorious in arms, in riches, and in fame:
Tho' there the fair Ægyptian heifer fed,
And there deluded Argus slept, and bled;
Tho' there the braz'n tow'r was storm'd of old,
When Jove descended in almighty gold.
Yet I can pardon those obscurer rapes,
Those bashful crimes disguis'd in borrow'd shapes;
But Thebes, where shining in cœlestial charms:
Thou cam'st triumphant to a mortal's arms,
When all my glories o'er her limbs were spread,
And blazing light'nings danc'd around her bed;
Curs'd Thebes the vengeance it deserves, may prove—
Ah why shou'd Argos feel the rage of Jove?
Yet since thou wilt thy sister-Queen controul,
Since still the lust of discord fires thy soul,
Go, rase my Samos, let Mycenè fall,
And level with the dust the Spartan wall;
No more let mortals Juno's pow'r invoke,
Her fanes no more with eastern incense smoke,
Nor victims sink beneath the sacred stroke;
But to your Isis all my rites transfer,
Let altars blaze and temples smoke for her;
For her, thro' Ægypt's fruitful clime renown'd,
Let weeping Nilus hear the timbrel sound.
But if thou must reform the stubborn times,
Avenging on the sons the father's crimes,
And from the long records of distant age
Derive incitements to renew thy rage;
Say, from what period then has Jove design'd
To date his vengeance; to what bounds confin'd?
Begin from thence, where first Alphëus hides
His wand'ring stream, and thro' the briny tides
Unmix'd, to his Sicilian river glides.
Thy own Arcadians there the thunder claim,
Whose impious rites disgrace thy mighty name;
Who raise thy temples where the chariot stood
Of fierce Oenomäus, defil'd with blood;
Where once his steeds their savage banquet found,
And human bones yet whiten all the ground.
Say, can those honours please? and can'st thou love
Presumptuous Crete, that boasts the tomb of Jove?
And shall not Tantalus his kingdoms share
Thy wife and sister's tutelary care?
Reverse, O Jove, thy too severe decree,
Nor doom to war a race deriv'd from thee;
On impious realms, and barb'rous Kings, impose
Thy plagues, and curse 'em with such  Sons as those.
Thus, in reproach and pray'r, the Queen express'd
The rage and grief contending in her breast;
Unmov'd remain'd the ruler of the sky,
And from his throne return'd this stern reply.
'Twas thus I deem'd thy haughty soul would bear
The dire, tho' just, revenge which I prepare
Against a nation thy peculiar care:
No less Dione might for Thebes contend,
Nor Bacchus less his native town defend,
Yet these in silence see the fates fulfil
Their work, and reverence our superior will.
For by the black infernal Styx I swear,
(That dreadful oath which binds the Thunderer)
'Tis fix'd; th'irrevocable doom of Jove;
No force can bend me, no persuasion move.
Haste then, Cyllenius, thro' the liquid air;
Go mount the winds, and to the shades repair;
Bid hell's black monarch my commands obey,
And give up Laius to the realms of day,
Whose ghost yet shiv'ring on Cocytus' sand,
Expects its passage to the farther strand:
Let the pale sire revisit Thebes, and bear
These pleasing orders to the tyrant's ear;
That, from his exil'd brother, swell'd with pride
Of foreign forces, and his Argive bride,
Almighty Jove commands him to detain
The promis'd empire, and alternate reign:
Be this the cause of more than mortal hate;
The rest, succeeding times shall ripen into Fate.
The God obeys, and to his feet applies
Those golden wings that cut the yielding skies;
His ample hat his beamy locks o'erspread,
And veil'd the starry glories of his head!
He seiz'd the wand that causes sleep to fly,
Or in soft slumbers seals the wakeful eye;
That drives the dead to dark Tartarean coasts,
Or back to life compels the wond'ring ghosts.
Thus, thro' the parting clouds, the son of May
Wings on the whistling winds his rapid way,
Now smoothly steers thro' air his equal flight,
Now springs aloft, and tow'rs th'ethereal height;
Then wheeling down the steep of heav'n he flies,
And draws a radiant circle o'er the skies.
Meantime the banish'd Polynices roves
(His Thebes abandon'd) thro' th'Aonian groves,
While future realms his wand'ring thoughts delight,
His daily vision and his dream by night;
Forbidden Thebes appears before his eye,
From whence he sees his absent brother fly,
With transport views the airy rule his own,
And swells on an imaginary throne.
Fain would he cast a tedious age away,
And live out all in one triumphant day.
He chides the lazy progress of the sun,
And bids the year with swifter motion run.
With anxious hopes his craving mind is tost,
And all his joys in length of wishes lost.
The hero then resolves his course to bend
Where ancient Danaus' fruitful fields extend,
And fam'd Mycene's lofty tow'rs ascend,
(Where late the sun did Atreus' crimes detest,
And disappear'd in horror of the feast.)
And now by chance, by fate, or furies led,
From Bacchus' consecrated caves he fled,
Where the shrill cries of frantic matrons sound,
And Pentheus' blood enrich'd the rising ground.
Then sees Cythæron tow'ring o'er the plain,
And thence declining gently to the main.
Next to the bounds of Nisus' realm repairs,
Where treach'rous Scylla cut the purple hairs:
The hanging cliffs of Scyron's rock explores,
And hears the murmurs of the diff'rent shores:
Passes the strait that parts the foaming seas,
And stately Corinth's pleasing site surveys.
'Twas now the time when Phœbus yields to night,
And rising Cynthia sheds her silver light,
Wide o'er the world in solemn pomp she drew
Her airy chariot hung with pearly dew;
All birds and beasts lie hush'd; sleep steals away
The wild desires of men, and toils of day,
And brings, descending thro' the silent air,
A sweet forgetfulness of human care.
Yet no red clouds, with golden borders gay,
Promise the skies the bright return of day;
No faint reflections of the distant light
Streak with long gleams the scatt'ring shades of night;
From the damp earth impervious vapours rise,
Encrease the darkness and involve the skies.
At once the rushing winds with roaring sound
Burst from th'Æolian caves, and rend the ground,
With equal rage their airy quarrel try,
And win by turns the kingdom of the sky:
But with a thicker night black Auster shrouds
The heav'ns, and drives on heaps the rolling clouds,
From whose dark womb a ratling tempest pours,
Which the cold north congeals to haily show'rs.
From pole to pole the thunder roars aloud,
And broken lightnings flash from ev'ry cloud.
Now smoaks with show'rs the misty mountain-ground,
And floated fields lie undistinguish'd round:
Th'Inachian streams with headlong fury run,
And Erasinus rolls a deluge on:
The foaming Lerna swells above its bounds,
And spreads its ancient poisons o'er the grounds:
Where late was dust, now rapid torrents play,
Rush thro' the mounds, and bear the damms away:
Old limbs of trees from crackling forests torn,
Are whirl'd in air, and on the winds are born;
The storm the dark Lycæan groves display'd,
And first to light expos'd the sacred shade.
Th'intrepid Theban hears the bursting sky,
Sees yawning rocks in massy fragments fly,
And views astonish'd from the hills afar,
The floods descending and the watry war,
That driv'n by storms, and pouring o'er the plain,
Swept herds, and hinds, and houses to the main.
Thro' the brown horrors of the night he fled,
Nor knows, amaz'd, what doubtful path to tread,
His brother's image to his mind appears,
Inflames his heart with rage, and wings his feet with fears.
So fares a sailor on the stormy main,
When clouds conceal Boötes' golden wain,
When not a star its friendly lustre keeps,
Nor trembling Cynthia glimmers on the deeps;
He dreads the rocks, and shoals, and seas, and skies,
While thunder roars, and light'ning round him flies.
Thus strove the chief on ev'ry side distress'd,
Thus still his courage, with his toils encreas'd;
With his broad shield oppos'd, he forc'd his way
Thro' thickest woods, and rouz'd the beasts of prey.
Till he beheld, where from Larissa's height
The shelving walls reflect a glancing light:
Thither with haste the Theban hero flies;
On this side Lerna's pois'nous water lies,
On that, Prosymna's grove and temple rise:
He pass'd the gates which then unguarded lay,
And to the regal palace bent his way;
On the cold marble spent with toil he lies,
And waits till pleasing slumbers seal his eyes.
Adrastus here his happy people sways,
Bless'd with calm peace in his declining days,
By both his parents of descent divine,
Great Jove and Phœbus grac'd his noble line;
Heav'n had not crown'd his wishes with a son,
But two fair daughters heir'd his state and throne.
To him Apollo (wondrous to relate!
But who can pierce into the depths of fate?)
Had sung—“Expect thy sons on Argos' shore,
“A yellow lion and a bristly boar.
This, long revolv'd in his paternal breast,
Sate heavy on his heart, and broke his rest;
This, great Amphiaraus, lay hid from thee,
Tho' skill'd in fate, and dark futurity.
The father's care and prophet's art were vain,
For thus did the predicting God ordain.
Lo hapless Tydeus, whose ill-fated hand
Had slain his brother, leaves his native land,
And seiz'd with horror, in the shades of night,
Thro' the thick desarts headlong urg'd his flight:
Now by the fury of the tempests driv'n,
He seeks a shelter from th'inclement heav'n,
Till led by fate, the Theban's steps he treads,
And to fair Argos' open court succeeds.
When thus the chiefs from diff'rent lands resort
T'Adrastus' realms, and hospitable court;
The King surveys his guests with curious eyes,
And views their arms and habit with surprize.
A lion's yellow skin the Theban wears,
Horrid his mane, and rough with curling hairs;
Such once employ'd Alcides' youthful toils,
E'er yet adorn'd with Nemea's dreadful spoils.
A boar's stiff hide, of Calydonian breed,
Oenides' manly shoulders overspread,
Oblique his tusks, erect his bristles stood,
Alive, the pride and terror of the wood.
Struck with the sight, and fix'd in deep amaze,
The King th'accomplish'd Oracle surveys,
Reveres Apollo's vocal caves, and owns
The guiding Godhead, and his future sons.
O'er all his bosom secret transports reign,
And a glad horror shoots thro' ev'ry vein.
To heav'n he lifts his hands, erects his sight,
And thus invokes the silent Queen of night.
Goddess of shades, beneath whose gloomy reign
Yon' spangled arch glows with the starry train:
You who the cares of heav'n and earth allay,
Till nature quickned by th'inspiring ray
Wakes to new vigour with the rising day.
Oh thou who freest me from my doubtful state,
Long lost and wilder'd in the maze of Fate!
Be present still, oh Goddess! in our aid;
Proceed, and firm those omens thou hast made.
We to thy name our annual rites will pay,
And on thy altars sacrifices lay;
The sable flock shall fall beneath the stroke,
And fill thy temples with a grateful smoke.
Hail, faithful Tripos! hail, ye dark abodes
Of awful Phœbus: I confess the Gods!
Thus, seiz'd with sacred fear, the Monarch pray'd;
Then to his inner court the guests convey'd;
Where yet thin fumes from dying sparks arise,
And dust yet white upon each altar lies,
The relicks of a former sacrifice.
The King once more the solemn rites requires,
And bids renew the feasts, and wake the fires.
His train obey, while all the courts around
With noisy care and various tumult sound.
Embroider'd purple clothes the golden beds;
This slave the floor, and that the table spreads;
A third dispels the darkness of the night,
And fills depending lamps with beams of light;
Here loaves in canisters are pile'd on high,
And there, in flames the slaughter'd victims fry.
Sublime in regal state, Adrastus shone,
Stretch'd on rich carpets, on his iv'ry throne;
A lofty couch receives each princely guest;
Around, at awful distance, wait the rest.
And now the King, his royal feast to grace,
Acestis calls, the guardian of his race,
Who first their youth in arts of virtue train'd,
And their ripe years in modest grace maintain'd.
Then softly whisper'd in her faithful ear,
And bade his daughters at the rites appear.
When from the close apartments of the night,
The royal Nymphs approach divinely bright;
Such was Diana's, such Minerva's face;
Nor shine their beauties with superior grace,
But that in these a milder charm endears,
And less of terror in their looks appears.
As on the heroes first they cast their eyes,
O'er their fair cheeks the glowing blushes rise,
Their down-cast looks a decent shame confess'd,
Then, on their father's rev'rend features rest.
The banquet done, the Monarch gives the sign,
To fill the goblet high with sparkling wine,
Which Danaus us'd in sacred rites of old,
With sculpture grac'd, and rough with rising gold.
Here to the clouds victorious Perseus flies;
Medusa seems to move her languid eyes,
And ev'n in gold, turns paler as she dies.
There from the chace Jove's tow'ring eagle bears
On golden wings, the Phrygian to the stars;
Still as he rises in th'æthereal height,
His native mountains lessen to his sight;
While all his sad companions upward gaze,
Fix'd on the glorious scene in wild amaze;
And the swift hounds, affrighted as he flies,
Run to the shade, and bark against the skies.
This golden bowl with gen'rous juice was crown'd,
The first libations sprinkled on the ground:
By turns on each celestial pow'r they call;
With Phœbus' name resounds the vaulted hall.
The courtly train, the strangers, and the rest,
Crown'd with chaste laurel, and with garlands dress'd,
While with rich gums the fuming altars blaze
Salute the God in num'rous hymns of praise.
Then thus the King: Perhaps, my noble guests,
These honour'd altars, and these annual feasts
To bright Apollo's awful name design'd,
Unknown, with wonder may perplex your mind.
Great was the cause; our old solemnities
From no blind zeal or fond tradition rise;
But sav'd from death, our Argives yearly pay
These grateful honours to the God of Day.
When by a thousand darts the Python slain
With orbs unroll'd lay covering all the plain,
(Transfix'd as o'er Castalia's streams he hung,
And suck'd new poisons with his triple tongue)
To Argos' realms the Victor god resorts,
And enters old Crotopus' humble courts.
This rural prince one only daughter blest,
That all the charms of blooming youth possess'd;
Fair was her face, and spotless was her mind,
Where filial love with virgin sweetness join'd.
Happy! and happy still she might have prov'd,
Were she less beautiful, or less belov'd!
But Phœbus lov'd, and on the flow'ry side
Of Nemea's stream, the yielding fair enjoy'd;
Now, e'er ten moons their orb with light adorn,
Th'illustrious offspring of the God was born.
The Nymph, her father's anger to evade,
Retires from Argos to the sylvan shade,
To woods and wilds the pleasing burden bears,
And trusts her infant to a shepherd's cares.
How mean a fate, unhappy child! is thine?
Ah how unworthy those of race divine?
On flow'ry herbs in some green covert laid,
His bed the ground, his canopy the shade,
He mixes with the bleating lambs his cries,
While the rude swain his rural music tries,
To call soft slumbers on his infant eyes.
Yet ev'n in those obscure abodes to live,
Was more, alas! than cruel fate would give,
For on the grassy verdure as he lay,
And breath'd the freshness of the early day,
Devouring dogs the helpless infant tore,
Fed on his trembling limbs, and lapp'd the gore.
Th'astonish'd mother, when the rumour came,
Forgets her father, and neglects her fame,
With loud complaints she fills the yielding air,
And beats her breast, and rends her flowing hair;
Then wild with anguish to her Sire she flies:
Demands the sentence, and contented dies.
But touch'd with sorrow for the dead, too late,
The raging God prepares t'avenge her fate.
He sends a monster, horrible and fell,
Begot by furies in the depths of hell.
The pest a virgin's face and bosom bears;
High on her crown a rising snake appears,
Guards her black front, and hisses in her hairs:
About the realm she walks her dreadful round,
When night with sable wings o'erspreads the ground,
Devours young babes before their parents eyes,
And feeds and thrives on publick miseries.
But gen'rous rage the bold Chorœbus warms,
Chorœbus, fam'd for virtue, as for arms;
Some few like him, inspir'd with martial flame,
Thought a short life well lost for endless fame.
These, where two ways in equal parts divide,
The direful monster from afar descry'd;
Two bleeding babes depending at her side;
Whose panting vitals, warm with life, she draws,
And in their hearts embrues her cruel claws.
The youth surround her with extended spears;
But brave Chorœbus in the front appears,
Deep in her breast he plung'd his shining sword,
And hell's dire monster back to hell restor'd.
Th'Inachians view the slain with vast surprize,
Her twisting volumes, and her rolling eyes,
Her spotted breast, and gaping womb embru'd
With livid poison, and our childrens blood.
The croud in stupid wonder fix'd appear,
Pale ev'n in joy, nor yet forget to fear.
Some with vast beams the squalid corps engage,
And weary all the wild efforts of rage.
The birds obscene, that nightly flock'd to taste,
With hollow screeches fled the dire repast;
And ravenous dogs, allur'd by scented blood,
And starving wolves, ran howling to the wood.
But fir'd with rage, from cleft Parnassus' brow
Avenging Phœbus' bent his deadly bow,
And hissing flew the feather'd fates below;
A night of sultry clouds involv'd around
The tow'rs, the fields, and the devoted ground:
And now a thousand lives together fled,
Death with his scythe cut off the fatal thread,
And a whole province in his triumph led.
But Phœbus, ask'd why noxious fires appear,
And raging Sirius blasts the sickly year;
Demands their lives by whom his monster fell,
And dooms a dreadful sacrifice to hell.
Bless'd be thy dust, and let eternal fame
Attend thy Manes, and preserve thy name;
Undaunted Hero! who, divinely brave,
In such a cause disdain'd thy life to save;
But view'd the shrine with a superior look,
And its upbraided Godhead thus bespoke.
With piety, the soul's securest guard,
And conscious virtue, still its own reward,
Willing I come, unknowing how to fear;
Nor shalt thou, Phœbus, find a suppliant here.
Thy monster's death to me was ow'd alone,
And 'tis a deed too glorious to disown.
Behold him here, for whom, so many days,
Impervious clouds conceal'd thy sullen rays;
For whom, as Man no longer claim'd thy care,
Such numbers fell by pestilential air!
But if th'abandon'd race of human kind
From Gods above no more compassion find;
If such inclemency in heav'n can dwell,
Yet why must un-offending Argos feel
The vengeance due to this unluckly steel?
On me, on me, let all thy fury fall,
Nor err from me, since I deserve it all:
Unless our desart cities please thy sight,
Our fun'ral flames reflect a grateful light.
Discharge thy shafts, this ready bosom rend,
And to the shades a ghost triumphant send;
But for my Country let my fate atone,
Be mine the vengeance, as the crime my own.
Merit distress'd, impartial heav'n relieves;
Unwelcome life relenting Phœbus gives;
For not the vengeful pow'r, that glow'd with rage,
With such amazing virtue durst engage.
The clouds dispers'd, Apollo's wrath expir'd,
And from the wondring God th'unwilling youth retir'd.
Thence we these altars in his temple raise,
And offer annual honours, feasts, and praise;
These solemn feasts propitious Phœbus please,
These honours, still renew'd, his antient wrath appease.
But say, illustrious guest (adjoin'd the King)
What name you bear, from what high race you spring?
The noble Tydeus stands confess'd, and known
Our neighbour Prince, and heir of Calydon.
Relate your fortunes, while the friendly night
And silent hours to various talk invite.
The Theban bends on earth his gloomy eyes,
Confus'd, and sadly thus at length replies:
Before these altars how shall I proclaim
(Oh gen'rous prince) my nation or my name,
Or thro' what veins our antient blood has roll'd?
Let the sad tale for ever rest untold!
Yet if propitious to a wretch unknown,
You seek to share in sorrows not your own;
Know then, from Cadmus I derive my race,
Jocasta's son, and Thebes my native place.
To whom the King, (who felt his gen'rous breast
Touch'd with concern for his unhappy guest)
Replies—Ah why forbears the son to name
His wretched father, known too well by fame?
Fame, that delights around the world to stray,
Scorns not to take our Argos in her way.
Ev'n those who dwell where suns at distance roll,
In northern wilds, and freeze beneath the pole;
And those who tread the burning Libyan lands,
The faithless Syrtes and the moving sands;
Who view the western sea's extremest bounds,
Or drink of Ganges in their eastern grounds;
All these the woes of Oedipus have known,
Your fates, your furies, and your haunted town.
If on the sons the parents crimes descend,
What Prince from those his lineage can defend?
Be this thy comfort, that 'tis thine t'efface
With virtuous acts thy ancestor's disgrace,
And be thy self the honour of thy race.
But see! the stars begin to steal away,
And shine more faintly at approaching day;
Now pour the wine; and in your tuneful lays,
Once more resound the great Apollo's praise.
Oh father Phœbus! whether Lycia's coast
And snowy mountains, thy bright presence boast;
Whether to sweet Castalia thou repair,
And bathe in silver dews thy yellow hair;
Or pleas'd to find fair Delos float no more,
Delight in Cynthus, and the shady shore;
Or chuse thy seat in Ilion's proud abodes,
The shining structures rais'd by lab'ring Gods.
By thee the bow and mortal shafts are born;
Eternal charms thy blooming youth adorn:
Skill'd in the laws of secret fate above,
And the dark counsels of almighty Jove,
'Tis thine the seeds of future war to know,
The change of scepters, and impending woe;
When direful meteors spread thro' glowing air
Long trails of light, and shake their blazing hair.
Thy rage the Phrygian felt, who durst aspire
T'excel the music of thy heav'nly lyre;
Thy shafts aveng'd leud Tityus' guilty flame,
Th'immortal victim of thy mother's fame;
Thy hand slew Python, and the dame who lost
Her num'rous off-spring for a fatal boast.
In Phlegias' doom thy just revenge appears,
Condemn'd to furies and eternal fears;
He views his food, but dreads, with lifted eye,
The mouldring rock that trembles from on high.
Propitious hear our pray'r, O Pow'r divine!
And on thy hospitable Argos shine.
Whether the style of Titan please thee more,
Whose purple rays th'Achæmenes adore;
Or great Osyris, who first taught the swain
In Pharian fields to sow the golden grain;
Or Mitra, to whose beams the Persian bows,
And pays, in hollow rocks, his awful vows;
Mitra, whose head the blaze of light adorns,
Who grasps the struggling heifer's lunar horns.



Now red'ning from the dawn, the Morning ray
Glow'd in the front of Heav'n, and gave the Day.
The youthful Heroe, with returning light,
Rose anxious from th'inquietudes of Night.
A royal robe he wore with graceful pride,
A two-edg'd faulchion threaten'd by his side,
Embroider'd sandals glitter'd as he trod,
And forth he mov'd, majestic as a God.
Then by his Heralds, restless of delay,
To council calls the Peers: the Peers obey.
Soon as in solemn form th'assembly sate,
From his high dome himself descends in state.
Bright in his hand a pond'rous javelin shin'd; 


Two Dogs, a faithful guard, attend behind; 

Pallas with grace divine his form improves,
And gazing crowds admire him as he moves.
His Father's throne he fill'd: while distant stood
The hoary Peers, and Aged Wisdom bow'd.
'Twas silence all, at last Ægyptius spoke;
Ægyptius, by his age and sorrows broke:
A length of days his soul with prudence crown'd,
A length of days had bent him to the Ground.
His eldest 
 hope in arms to Ilion came,
By great Ulysses taught the path to fame;
But (hapless youth) the hideous Cyclops tore
His quiv'ring limbs, and quaff'd his spouting gore.
Three sons remain'd: To climb with haughty fires
The royal bed, Eurynomus aspires;
The rest with duteous love his griefs asswage,
And ease the Sire of half the cares of age.
Yet still his Antiphus he loves, he mourns, 


And as he stood, he spoke and wept by turns.
Since great Ulysses sought the Phrygian plains, 

Within these walls inglorious silence reigns.
Say then, ye Peers! by whose commands we meet?
Why here once more in solemn council fit?
Ye young, ye old, the weighty cause disclose:
Arrives some message of invading foes?
Or say, does high necessity of state
Inspire some Patriot, and demand debate!
The present Synod speaks its author wise;
Assist him, Jove! thou regent of the skies!
He spoke. Telemachus with transport glows,
Embrac'd the omen, and majestic rose:
(His royal hand th'imperial scepter sway'd)
Then thus, addressing to Ægyptius, said.
Rev'rend old man! lo here confest he stands
By whom ye meet; my grief your care demands.
No story I unfold of publick woes,
Nor bear advices of impending foes:
Peace the blest land, and joys incessant crown;
Of all this happy realm, I grieve alone.
For my lost Sire continual sorrows spring,
The great, the good; your Father, and your King. 


Yet more; our house from its foundation bows, 


Our foes are pow'rful, and your sons the foes:
Hither, unwelcome to the Queen they come;
Why seek they not the rich Icarian dome?
If she must wed, from other hands require
The dowry; Is Telemachus her Sire?
Yet thro' my court the noise of Revel rings,
And wastes the wise frugality of Kings.
Scarce all my herds their luxury suffice; 

Scarce all my wine their midnight hours supplies.
Safe in my youth, in riot still they grow,
Nor in the helpless Orphan dread a foe.
But come it will, the time when manhood grants
More pow'rful advocates than vain complaints.
Approach that hour! unsufferable wrong
Cries to the Gods, and vengeance sleeps too long.
Rise then, ye Peers! with virtuous anger rise!
Your fame revere, but most th'avenging skies.
By all the deathless pow'rs that reign above,
By righteous Themis and by thund'ring Jove,
(Themis, who gives to councils, or denies 

Success; and humbles, or confirms the wise)
Rise in my aid! suffice the tears that flow
For my lost Sire, nor add new woe to woe.
If e'er he bore the sword to strengthen ill,
Or having pow'r to wrong, betray'd the will;
On me, on me your kindled wrath asswage,
And bid the voice of lawless riot rage.
If ruin to our royal race ye doom,
Be You the spoilers, and our wealth consume. 


Then might we hope redress from juster laws,
And raise all Ithaca to aid our cause:
But while your Sons commit th'unpunish'd wrong,
You make the Arm of Violence too strong.
While thus he spoke, with rage and grief he frown'd,
And dash'd th'imperial sceptre to the ground.
The big round tear hung trembling in his eye: 


The Synod griev'd, and gave a pitying sigh,
Then silent sate—at length Antinous burns
With haughty rage, and sternly thus returns.
O insolence of youth! whose tongue affords 


Such railing eloquence, and war of words.
Studious thy country's worthies to defame,
Thy erring voice displays thy Mother's shame.
Elusive of the bridal day, she gives 

Fond hopes to all, and all with hopes deceives.
Did not the sun, thro' heav'n's wide azure roll'd,
For three long years the royal fraud behold?
While she, laborious in delusion, spread
The spacious loom, and mix'd the various thread:
Where as to life the wond'rous figures rise,
Thus spoke th'inventive Queen, with artful sighs.
“Tho' cold in death Ulysses breathes no more,
“Cease yet a while to urge the bridal hour;
“Cease, 'till to great Laertes I bequeath 

“A task of grief, his ornaments of death.
“Lest when the Fates his royal ashes claim,
“The Grecian matrons taint my spotless fame;
“When he, whom living mighty realms obey'd,
“Shall want in death a shroud to grace his shade.
Thus she: at once the gen'rous train complies,
Nor fraud mistrusts in virtue's fair disguise.
The work she ply'd; but studious of delay,
By night revers'd the labours of the day.
While thrice the sun his annual journey made,
The conscious lamp the midnight fraud survey'd;
Unheard, unseen, three years her arts prevail;
The fourth, her maid unfolds th'amazing tale.
We saw, as unperceiv'd we took our stand,
The backward labours of her faithless hand.
Then urg'd, she perfects her illustrious toils;
A wond'rous monument of female wiles!
But you, oh Peers! and thou, oh Prince! give ear:
(I speak aloud, that ev'ry Greek may hear)
Dismiss the Queen; and if her sire approves,
Let him espouse her to the Peer she loves:
Bid instant to prepare the bridal train,
Nor let a race of Princes wait in vain.
Tho' with a grace divine her soul is blest,
And all Minerva breathes within her breast,
In wond'rous arts than woman more renown'd,
And more than woman with deep wisdom crown'd;
Tho' Tyro nor Mycene match her Name,
Nor great Alcmena, (the proud boasts of Fame)
Yet thus by heav'n adorn'd, by heav'n's decree
She shines with fatal excellence, to thee: 


With thee, the bowl we drain, indulge the feast,
'Till righteous heav'n reclaim her stubborn breast.
What tho' from pole to pole resounds her name!
The son's destruction waits the mother's fame:
For 'till she leaves thy court, it is decreed,
Thy bowl to empty, and thy flock to bleed.
While yet he speaks, Telemachus replies. 


Ev'n Nature starts, and what ye ask denies.
Thus, shall I thus repay a mother's cares,
Who gave me life, and nurs'd my infant years?
While sad on foreign shores Ulysses treads,
Or glides a ghost with unapparent shades,
How to Icarius in the bridal hour
Shall I, by waste undone, refund the dow'r?
How from my father should I vengeance dread? 


How would my mother curse my hated head?
And while in wrath to vengeful Fiends she cries, 

How from their hell would vengeful Fiends arise?
Abhorr'd by all, accurs'd my name would grow,
The earth's disgrace, and Humankind my foe.
If this displease, why urge ye here your stay?
Haste from the court, ye spoilers, haste away:
Waste in wild riot what your land allows,
There ply the early feast, and late carouse.
But if, to honour lost, 'tis still decreed
For you my bowl shall flow, my flocks shall bleed;
Judge and assert my right, impartial Jove!
By him, and all th'immortal host above,
(A sacred oath) if heav'n the pow'r supply,
Vengeance I vow, and for your wrongs ye die.
With that, two Eagles from a mountain's height 

By Jove's command direct their rapid flight;
Swift they descend, with wing to wing conjoin'd,
Stretch their broad plumes, and float upon the wind.
Above th'assembled Peers they wheel on high,
And clang their wings, and hovering beat the sky;
With ardent eyes the rival train they threat,
And shrieking loud, denounce approaching fate.
They cuff, they tear; their cheeks and necks they rend,
And from their plumes huge drops of blood descend:
Then sailing o'er the domes and tow'rs they fly,
Full tow'rd the East, and mount into the sky.
The wond'ring Rivals gaze with cares opprest,
And chilling horrours freeze in every breast.
Till big with knowledge of approaching woes
The Prince of Augurs, Halitherses, rose:
Prescient he view'd th'aerial tracts, and drew
A sure presage from ev'ry wing that flew.
Ye sons (he cry'd) of Ithaca give ear,
Hear all! but chiefly you, oh Rivals! hear.
Destruction sure o'er all your heads impends;
Ulysses comes, and death his steps attends.
Nor to the Great alone is death decreed;
We, and our guilty Ithaca must bleed.
Why cease we then the wrath of heav'n to stay?
Be humbled all, and lead, ye Great! the way.
For lo! my words no fancy'd woes relate:
I speak from science, and the voice is Fate.
When great Ulysses sought the Phrygian shores
To shake with war proud Ilion's lofty tow'rs,
Deeds then undone my faithful tongue foretold;
Heav'n seal'd my words, and you those deeds behold.
I see (I cry'd) his woes, a countless train; 


I see his friends o'erwhelm'd beneath the main;
How twice ten years from shore to shore he roams;
Now twice ten years are past, and now he comes!
To whom Eurymachus—Fly Dotard, fly! 


With thy wise dreams, and fables of the sky.
Go prophesy at home; thy sons advise:
Here thou art sage in vain—I better read the skies.
Unnumber'd Birds glide thro' th'aerial way,
Vagrants of air, and unforeboding stray.
Cold in the tomb, or in the deeps below
Ulysses lies: oh wert thou laid as low!
Then would that busy head no broils suggest,
Nor fire to rage Telemachus's breast.
From him some bribe thy venal tongue requires,
And Int'rest, not the God, thy voice inspires.
His guide-less youth, if thy experienc'd age
Mislead fallacious into idle rage,
Vengeance deserv'd thy malice shall repress,
And but augment the wrongs thou would'st redress.
Telemachus may bid the Queen repair
To great Icarius, whose paternal care
Will guide her passion, and reward her choice,
With wealthy dow'r, and bridal gifts of price.
'Till she retires, determin'd we remain,
And both the Prince and Augur threat in vain:
His pride of words, and thy wild dream of fate,
Move not the brave, or only move their hate.
Threat on, oh Prince! elude the bridal day,
Threat on, 'till all thy stores in waste decay.
True, Greece affords a train of lovely dames,
In wealth and beauty worthy of our flames:
But never from this nobler suit we cease;
For wealth and beauty less than virtue please.
To whom the Youth. Since then in vain I tell
My num'rous woes, in silence let them dwell.
But heav'n, and all the Greeks, have heard my wrongs: 

To heav'n, and all the Greeks, redress belongs.
Yet this I ask (nor be it ask'd in vain)
A bark to waft me o'er the rolling main;
The realms of Pyle and Sparta to explore,
And seek my royal sire from shore to shore:
If, or to Fame his doubtful fate be known,
Or to be learn'd from Oracles alone?
If yet he lives, with patience I forbear
'Till the fleet hours restore the circling year;
But if already wand'ring in the train
Of empty shades, I measure back the main;
Plant the fair column o'er the mighty dead,
And yield his consort to the nuptial bed.
He ceas'd; and while abash'd the Peers attend,
Mentor arose, Ulysses' faithful friend: 


[When fierce in arms he sought the scenes of war,
“My friend (he cry'd) my palace be thy care;
“Years roll'd on years my god-like sire decay,
“Guard thou his age, and his behests obey.] 


Stern as he rose, he cast his eyes around
That flash'd with rage; and as he spoke, he frown'd.
O never, never more! let King be just,
Be mild in pow'r, or faithful to his trust!
Let Tyrants govern with an iron rod,
Oppress, destroy, and be the scourge of God;
Since he who like a father held his rein,
So soon forgot, was just and mild in vain!
True, while my friend is griev'd, his griefs I share;
Yet now the Rivals are my smallest care:
They, for the mighty mischiefs they devise,
Ere long shall pay—their forfeit lives the price.
But against you, ye Greeks! ye coward train,
Gods! how my soul is mov'd with just disdain?
Dumb ye all stand, and not one tongue affords
His injur'd Prince the little aid of words.
While yet he spoke, Leocritus rejoyn'd:
O pride of words, and arrogance of mind!
Would'st thou to rise in arms the Greeks advise?
Join all your pow'rs! in arms, ye Greeks, arise!
Yet would your pow'rs in vain our strength oppose;
The valiant few o'ermatch an host of foes.
Should great Ulysses stern appear in arms,
While the bowl circles, and the banquet warms; 

Tho' to his breast his spouse with transport flies,
Torn from her breast, that hour, Ulysses dies.
But hence retreating to your domes repair;
To arm the vessel, Mentor! be thy care,
And Halitherses! thine: be each his friend;
Ye lov'd the father: go, the son attend.
But yet, I trust, the boaster means to stay
Safe in the court, nor tempt the wat'ry way.
Then, with a rushing sound, th'Assembly bend 


Diverse their steps: the rival rout ascend
The royal dome; while sad the Prince explores
The neighb'ring main, and sorrowing treads the shores.
There, as the waters o'er his hands he shed,
The royal suppliant to Minerva pray'd,
O Goddess! who descending from the skies
Vouchsaf'd thy presence to my wond'ring eyes,
By whose commands the raging deeps I trace,
And seek my sire thro' storms and rolling seas!
Hear from thy heav'ns above, oh warrior-maid!
Descend once more, propitious to my aid.
Without thy presence vain is thy command;
Greece, and the rival train thy voice withstand.
Indulgent to his pray'r, the Goddess took
Sage Mentor's form, and thus like Mentor spoke.
O Prince, in early youth divinely wise, 


Born, the Ulysses of thy age to rise!
If to the son the father's worth descends,
O'er the wide waves success thy ways attends:
To tread the walks of death he stood prepar'd,
And what he greatly thought, he nobly dar'd.
Were not wise sons descendant of the wise,
And did not Heroes from brave Heroes rise,
Vain were my hopes: few sons attain the praise
Of their great sires, and most their sires disgrace.
But since thy veins paternal virtue fires,
And all Penelope thy soul inspires,
Go, and succeed! the rival's aims despise;
For never, never, wicked man was wise.
Blind they rejoice, tho' now, ev'n now they fall;
Death hastes amain: one hour o'erwhelms them all!
And lo, with speed we plow the wat'ry way;
My pow'r shall guard thee, and my hand convey:
The winged vessel studious I prepare,
Thro' seas and realms companion of thy care.
Thou to the court ascend; and to the shores
(When night advances) bear the naval stores;
Bread, that decaying man with strength supplies,
And gen'rous wine, which thoughtful sorrow flies.
Mean-while the Mariners by my command
Shall speed aboard, a valiant chosen band.
Wide o'er the bay, by vessel vessel rides;
The best I chuse, to waft thee o'er the tides.
She spoke: to his high dome the Prince returns,
And as he moves, with royal anguish mourns.
'Twas riot all, among the lawless train;
Boar bled by boar, and goat by goat lay slain.
Arriv'd, his hand the gay Antinous prest,
And thus deriding, with a smile addrest.
Grieve not, oh daring Prince! that noble heart: 

Ill suits gay youth the stern heroic part.
Indulge the genial hour, unbend thy soul,
Leave thought to Age, and drain the flowing bowl.
Studious to ease thy grief, our care provides
The bark, to waft thee o'er the swelling tides.
Is this (returns the Prince) for mirth a time?
When lawless gluttons riot, mirth's a crime;
The luscious wines dishonour'd lose their taste,
The song is noise, and impious is the feast.
Suffice it to have spent with swift decay
The wealth of Kings, and made my youth a prey.
But now the wise instructions of the sage,
And manly thoughts inspir'd by manly age,
Teach me to feek redress for all my woe,
Here, or in Pyle.—in Pyle or here, your foe.
Deny your vessels; ye deny in vain;
A private voyager I pass the main.
Free breathe the winds, and free the billows flow,
And where on earth I live, I live your foe.
He spoke and frown'd, nor longer deign'd to stay,
Sternly his hand withdrew, and strode away.
Mean time, o'er all the dome, they quaff, they feast,
Derisive taunts were spread from guest to guest,
And each in jovial mood his mate addrest.
Tremble ye not, oh friends! and coward fly,
Doom'd by the stern Telemachus to dye?
To Pyle or Sparta to demand supplies, 


Big with revenge, the mighty warrior flies:
Or comes from Ephyré with poisons fraught,
And kills us all in one tremendous draught?
Or who can say (his gamesome mate replies)
But while the dangers of the deeps he tries,
He, like his sire, may sink depriv'd of breath,
And punish us unkindly by his death?
What mighty labours would he then create,
To seize his treasures, and divide his state,
The royal Palace to the Queen convey, 

Or him she blesses in the bridal day!
Mean-time the lofty rooms the Prince surveys,
Where lay the treasures of th'Ithacian race: 

Here ruddy brass and gold refulgent blaz'd;
There polish'd chests embroider'd vestures grac'd;
Here jars of oil breath'd forth a rich perfume;
There casks of wine in rows adorn'd the dome.
(Pure flav'rous wine, by Gods in bounty giv'n,
And worthy to exalt the feasts of heav'n.)
Untouch'd they stood, 'till his long labours o'er
The great Ulysses reach'd his native shore.
A double strength of bars secur'd the gates:
Fast by the door the wise Euryclea waits;
Euryclea, who, great Ops! thy lineage shar'd,
And watch'd all night, all day; a faithful guard.
To whom the Prince. O thou, whose guardian care 


Nurs'd the most wretched King that breathes the air!
Untouch'd and sacred may these vessels stand,
'Till great Ulysses views his native land.
But by thy care twelve urns of wine be fill'd;
Next these in worth, and firm those urns be seal'd;
And twice ten measures of the choicest flour
Prepar'd, ere yet descends the evening hour.
For when the fav'ring shades of night arise,
And peaceful slumbers close my mother's eyes,
Me from our coast shall spreading sails convey,
To seek Ulysses thro' the wat'ry way.
While yet he spoke, she fill'd the walls with cries,
And tears ran trickling from her aged eyes.
Oh whither, whither flies my son? she cry'd,
To realms, that rocks and roaring seas divide?
In foreign lands thy father's days decay'd,
And foreign lands contain the mighty dead.
The wat'ry way ill-fated if thou try,
All, all must perish, and by fraud you die!
Then stay, my child! storms beat, and rolls the main;
Oh beat those storms, and roll the seas in vain!
Far hence (reply'd the Prince) thy fears be driv'n:
Heav'n calls me forth; these counsels are of heav'n.
But by the pow'rs that hate the perjur'd, swear,
To keep my voyage from the royal ear,
Nor uncompell'd the dang'rous truth betray,
Till twice six times descends the lamp of day: 


Lest the sad tale a mother's life impair,
And grief destroy what time a while would spare.
Thus he. The matron with uplifted eyes
Attests th'all-seeing Sovereign of the skies.
Then studious she prepares the choicest flour,
The strength of wheat, and wines, an ample store.
While to the rival train the Prince returns,
The martial Goddess with impatience burns;
Like thee, Telemachus, in voice and size,
With speed divine from street to street she flies,
She bids the Mariners prepar'd to stand, 


When Night descends, embodied on the strand.
Then to Noemon swift she runs, she flies,
And asks a bark: the chief a bark supplies. 


And now, declining with his sloping wheels,
Down sunk the Sun behind the western hills.
The Goddess shov'd the vessel from the shores,
And stow'd within its womb the naval stores.
Full in the openings of the spacious main
It rides; and now descends the sailor train.
Next, to the court, impatient of delay
With rapid step the Goddess urg'd her way:
There ev'ry eye with slumbrous chains she bound, 

And dash'd the flowing goblet to the ground.
Drowzy they rose, with heavy fumes opprest,
Reel'd from the palace, and retir'd to rest.
Then thus, in Mentor's rev'rend form array'd,
Spoke to Telemachus the martial Maid.
Lo! on the seas prepar'd the vessel stands;
Th'impatient mariner thy speed demands,
Swift as she spoke, with rapid pace she leads.
The footsteps of the Deity he treads.
Swift to the shore they move: Along the strand
The ready vessel rides, the sailors ready stand.
He bids them bring their stores: th'attending train
Load the tall bark, and launch into the main.
The Prince and Goddess to the stern ascend;
To the strong stroke at once the rowers bend.
Full from the West she bids fresh breezes blow; 


The sable billows foam and roar below.
The Chief his orders gives; th'obedient band
With due observance wait the chief's command;
With speed the mast they rear, with speed unbind 


The spacious sheet, and stretch it to the wind.
High o'er the roaring waves the spreading sails
Bow the tall mast, and swell before the gales;
The crooked keel the parting surge divides,
And to the stern retreating roll the tides.
And now they ship their oars, and crown with wine 


The holy Goblet to the pow'rs divine:
Imploring all the Gods that reign above,
But chief, the blue-ey'd Progeny of Jove.
Thus all the night they stem the liquid way,
And end their voyage with the morning ray.



Authors are judg'd by strange capricious Rules,
The Great Ones are thought mad, the Small Ones Fools:
Yet sure the Best are most severely fated,
For Fools are only laugh'd at, Wits are hated.
Blockheads with Reason Men of Sense abhor;
But Fool 'gainst Fool, is barb'rous Civil War.
Why on all Authors then should Criticks fall?
Since some have writ, and shewn no Wit at all.
Condemn a Play of theirs, and they evade it,
Cry, damn not us, but damn the French who made it,
By running Goods, these graceless Owlers gain,
Theirs are the Rules of France, the Plots of Spain:
But Wit, like Wine, from happier Climates brought,
Dash'd by these Rogues, turns English common Draught:
They pall Moliere's and Lopez sprightly strain,
And teach dull Harlequins to grin in vain.
How shall our Author hope a gentler Fate,
Who dares most impudently—not translate.
It had been civil in these ticklish Times,
To fetch his Fools and Knaves from foreign Climes;
Spaniard and French abuse to the World's End,
But spare old England, lest you hurt a Friend.
If any Fool is by our Satyr bit,
Let him hiss loud, to show you all—he's hit.
Poets make Characters, as Salesmen Cloaths,
We take no Measure of your Fops and Beaus;
But here all Sizes and all Shapes you meet,
And fit your selves—like Chaps in Monmouth-Street.
Gallants look here, this  Fool's-Cap has an Air—
Goodly and smart,—with Ears of Issachar.
Let no One Fool engross it, or confine:
A common Blessing! now 'tis yours, now mine.
But Poets in all Ages, had the Care
To keep this Cap, for such as will, to wear;
Our Author has it now, for ev'ry Wit
Of Course resign'd it to the next that writ:
And thus upon the Stage 'tis fairly  thrown,
Let him that takes it, wear it as his own.



The Maid is Blest that will not hear
    Of Masquerading Tricks,
Nor lends to Wanton Songs an Ear,
    Nor Sighs for Coach and Six.
To Please her shall her Husband strive
    With all his Main and Might,
And in her Love shall Exercise
    Himself both Day and Night.
She shall bring forth most Pleasant Fruit,
    He Flourish still and Stand,
Ev'n so all Things shall prosper well,
    That this Maid takes in Hand.
No wicked Whores shall have such Luck
    Who follow their own Wills,
But Purg'd shall be to Skin and Bone,
    With Mercury and Pills.
For why? the Pure and Cleanly Maids
    Shall All, good Husbands gain:
But filthy and uncleanly Jades
    Shall Rot in Drury-Lane.



Tell me, by all the melting joys of Love,
By the warm Transports and entrancing Languors,
By the soft Fannings of the wafting Sheets,
By the dear Tremblings of the Bed of Bliss;
By all these tender Adjurations tell me,
—Am I not fit to write a Tragedy?



Peter complains, that God has given
    To his poor Babe a Life so short:
Consider Peter, he's in Heaven;
    'Tis good to have a Friend at Court.



In ev'ry Town, where Thamis rolls his Tyde,
A narrow Pass there is, with Houses low;
Where ever and anon, the Stream is ey'd,
And many a Boat soft sliding to and fro.
There oft' are heard the notes of Infant Woe,
The short thick Sob, loud Scream, and shriller Squall:
How can ye, Mothers, vex your Children so?
Some play, some eat, some cack against the wall,
And as they crouchen low, for bread and butter call.
And on the broken pavement, here and there,
Doth many a stinking sprat and herring lie;
A brandy and tobacco shop is near,
And hens, and dogs, and hogs are feeding by;
And here a sailor's jacket hangs to dry.
At ev'ry door are sun-burnt Matrons seen,
Mending old nets to catch the scaly fry;
Now singing shrill, and scolding eft between;
Scolds answer foul-mouth'd scolds; bad neighbourhood I ween.
The snappish cur, (the passengers annoy)
Close at my heel with yelping treble flies;
The whimp'ring girl, and hoarser-screaming boy,
Join to the yelping treble, shrilling cries;
The scolding Quean to louder notes doth rise,
And her full pipes those shrilling cries confound;
To her full pipes the grunting hog replies;
The grunting hogs alarm the Neighbours round,
And curs, girls, boys, and scolds, in the deep base are drown'd.
Hard by a Sty, beneath a roof of thatch,
Dwelt Obloquy, who in her early days
Baskets of fish at Billinsgate did watch,
Cod, whiting, oyster, mackrel, sprat, or plaice:
There learn'd she speech from tongues that never cease.
Slander beside her, like a Magpie, chatters,
With Envy, (spitting Cat) dread foe to peace;
Like a curs'd Cur, Malice before her clatters,
And vexing ev'ry wight, tears clothes and all to tatters.
Her dugs were mark'd by ev'ry Collier's hand,
Her mouth was black as bull-dogs at the stall:
She scratched, bit, and spar'd ne lace ne band,
And bitch and rogue her answer was to all;
Nay, e'en the parts of shame by name would call:
Yea when she passed by or lane or nook,
Would greet the man who turn'd him to the Wall,
And by his hand obscene the porter took,
Nor ever did askance like modest Virgin look.
Such place hath Deptford, navy-building town,
Woolwich and Wapping, smelling strong of pitch;
Such Lambeth, envy of each band and gown,
And Twick'nam such, which fairer scenes enrich
Grots, statues, urns, and Jon's Dog and bitch,
Ne village is without, on either side,
All up the silver Thames, or all adown;
Ne Richmond's self, from whose tall front are ey'd
Vales, spires, meandring streams, and Windsor's tow'ry pride.



As long as Moco's happy Tree shall grow,
While Berries crackle, or while Mills shall go;
While smoking Streams from Silver Spouts shall glide,
Or China's Earth receive the sable Tyde;
While Coffee shall to British Nymphs be dear;
While fragrant Steams the bended Head shall chear;
Or grateful Bitters shall delight the Tast;
So long her Honour, Name, and Praise shall last!



Thus have I seen, in Araby the blest,
A Phœnix couch'd upon her Fun'ral Nest.



Say, lovely youth, that do'st my heart command,
Can Phaon's eyes forget his Sapho's hand?
Must then her Name the wretched writer prove,
To thy remembrance lost, as to thy love?
Ask not the cause that I new numbers chuse,
The Lute neglected, and the Lyric muse;
Love taught my tears in sadder notes to flow,
And tun'd my heart to Elegies of woe.
I burn, I burn, as when thro' ripen'd corn
By driving winds the spreading flames are born!
Phaon to Ætna's scorching fields retires,
While I consume with more than Ætna's fires!
No more my soul a charm in music finds,
Music has charms alone for peaceful minds.
Soft scenes of solitude no more can please,
Love enters there, and I'm my own disease.
No more the Lesbian dames my passion move,
Once the dear objects of my guilty love;
All other loves are lost in only thine,
Ah youth ungrateful to a flame like mine!
Whom would not all those blooming charms surprize,
Those heav'nly looks, and dear, deluding eyes?
The harp and bow would you like Phœbus bear,
A brighter Phœbus, Phaon might appear;
Would you with ivy wreath your flowing hair,
Not Bacchus' self with Phaon could compare:
Yet Phœbus lov'd, and Bacchus felt the flame,
One Daphne warm'd, and one the Cretan dame,
Nymphs that in verse no more could rival me,
Than ev'n those Gods contend in charms with thee.
The Muses teach me all their softest lays,
And the wide world resounds with Sapho's praise.
Tho' great Alcæus more sublimely sings,
And strikes with bolder rage the sounding strings,
No less renown attends the moving lyre,
Which Venus tunes, and all her loves inspire.
To me what nature has in charms deny'd,
Is well by wit's more lasting charms supply'd.
Tho' short my stature, yet my name extends
To heav'n itself, and earth's remotest ends.
Brown as I am, an Æthiopian dame
Inspir'd young Perseus with a gen'rous flame.
Turtles and doves of diff'ring hues, unite,
And glossy jett is pair'd with shining white.
If to no charms thou wilt thy heart resign,
But such as merit, such as equal thine,
By none alas! by none thou can'st be mov'd,
Phaon alone by Phaon must be lov'd!
Yet once thy Sapho could thy cares employ,
Once in her arms you center'd all your joy:
Still all those joys to my remembrance move,
For oh! how vast a memory has Love?
My music, then, you could for ever hear,
And all my words were music to your ear.
You stop'd with kisses my inchanting tongue,
And found my kisses sweeter than my song.
In all I pleas'd, but most in what was best;
And the last joy was dearer than the rest.
Then with each word, each glance, each motion fir'd,
You still enjoy'd, and yet you still desir'd,
Till all dissolving in the trance we lay,
And in tumultuous raptures dy'd away.
The fair Sicilians now thy soul inflame;
Why was I born, ye Gods, a Lesbian dame?
But ah beware, Sicilian nymphs! nor boast
That wandring heart which I so lately lost;
Nor be with all those tempting words abus'd,
Those tempting words were all to Sapho us'd.
And you that rule Sicilia's happy plains,
Have pity, Venus, on your Poet's pains!
Shall fortune still in one sad tenor run,
And still increase the woes so soon begun?
Enur'd to sorrows from my tender years,
My parent's ashes drank my early tears:
My brother next, neglecting wealth and fame,
Ignobly burn'd in a destructive flame:
An infant daughter late my griefs increas'd,
And all a mother's cares distract my breast.
Alas, what more could fate itself impose,
But thee, the last and greatest of my woes?
No more my robes in waving purple flow,
Nor on my hand the sparkling diamonds glow;
No more my locks in ringlets curl'd diffuse
The costly sweetness of Arabian dews,
Nor braids of gold the vary'd tresses bind,
That fly disorder'd with the wanton wind:
For whom should Sapho use such arts as these?
He's gone, whom only she desir'd to please!
Cupid's light darts my tender bosom move,
Still is there cause for Sapho still to love:
So from my birth the Sisters fix'd my doom,
And gave to Venus all my life to come;
Or while my Muse in melting notes complains,
My yielding heart keeps measure to my strains.
By charms like thine which all my soul have won,
Who might not—ah! who would not be undone?
For those Aurora Cephalus might scorn,
And with fresh blushes paint the conscious morn.
For those might Cynthia lengthen Phaon's sleep,
And bid Endymion nightly tend his sheep.
Venus for those had rapt thee to the skies,
But Mars on thee might look with Venus' eyes.
O scarce a youth, yet scarce a tender boy!
O useful time for lovers to employ!
Pride of thy age, and glory of thy race,
Come to these arms, and melt in this embrace!
The vows you never will return, receive;
And take at least the love you will not give.
See, while I write, my words are lost in tears;
The less my sense, the more my love appears.
Sure 'twas not much to bid one kind adieu,
(At least to feign was never hard to you)
Farewel my Lesbian love, you might have said,
Or coldly thus, farewel oh Lesbian maid!
No tear did you, no parting kiss receive,
Nor knew I then how much I was to grieve.
No lover's gift your Sapho could confer,
And wrongs and woes were all you left with her.
No charge I gave you, and no charge could give,
But this; be mindful of our loves, and live.
Now by the Nine, those pow'rs ador'd by me,
And Love, the God that ever waits on thee,
When first I heard (from whom I hardly knew)
That you were fled, and all my joys with you,
Like some sad statue, speechless, pale, I stood,
Grief chill'd my breast, and stop'd my freezing blood,
No sigh to rise, no tear had pow'r to flow,
Fix'd in a stupid lethargy of woe:
But when its way th'impetuous passion found,
I rend my tresses, and my breast I wound,
I rave, then weep, I curse, and then complain,
Now swell to rage, now melt in tears again.
Not fiercer pangs distract the mournful dame,
Whose first-born infant feeds the fun'ral flame.
My scornful brother with a smile appears,
Insults my woes, and triumphs in my tears,
His hated image ever haunts my eyes,
And why this grief? thy daughter lives, he cries.
Stung with my love, and furious with despair,
All torn my garments, and my bosom bare,
My woes, thy crimes, I to the world proclaim;
Such inconsistent things are love and shame!
'Tis thou art all my care and my delight,
My daily longing, and my dream by night:
Oh night more pleasing than the brightest day,
When fancy gives what absence takes away,
And dress'd in all its visionary charms,
Restores my fair deserter to my arms!
Then round your neck in wanton wreaths I twine,
Then you, methinks, as fondly circle mine:
A thousand tender words, I hear and speak;
A thousand melting kisses, give, and take:
Then fiercer joys—I blush to mention these,
Yet while I blush, confess how much they please.
But when, with day, the sweet delusions fly,
And all things wake to life and joy, but I,
As if once more forsaken, I complain,
And close my eyes, to dream of you again:
Then frantic rise, and like some Fury rove
Thro' lonely plains, and thro' the silent grove,
As if the silent grove, and lonely plains
That knew my pleasures, could relieve my pains.
I view the Grotto, once the scene of love,
The rocks around, the hanging roofs above,
That charm'd me more, with native moss o'ergrown,
Than Phrygian marble, or the Parian stone.
I find the shades that veil'd our joys before,
But, Phaon gone, those shades delight no more.
Here the press'd herbs with bending tops betray
Where oft' entwin'd in am'rous folds we lay;
I kiss that earth which once was press'd by you,
And all with tears the with'ring herbs bedew.
For thee the fading trees appear to mourn,
And birds defer their songs till thy return:
Night shades the groves, and all in silence lie,
All, but the mournful Philomel and I:
With mournful Philomel I join my strain,
Of Tereus she, of Phaon I complain.
A spring there is, whose silver waters show
Clear as a glass, the shining sands below;
A flow'ry Lotos spreads its arms above,
Shades all the banks, and seems itself a grove;
Eternal greens the mossy margin grace,
Watch'd by the sylvan Genius of the place.
Here as I lay, and swell'd with tears the flood,
Before my sight a wat'ry Virgin stood,
She stood and cry'd, “O you that love in vain!
“Fly hence, and seek the fair Leucadian main;
“There stands a rock from whose impending steep
“Apollo's fane surveys the rolling deep;
“There injur'd lovers leaping from above,
“Their flames extinguish, and forget to love.
“Deucalion once with hopeless fury burn'd,
“In vain he lov'd, relentless Pyrrha scorn'd;
“But when from hence he plung'd into the main,
“Deucalion scorn'd, and Pyrrha lov'd in vain.
“Haste Sapho, haste, from high Leucadia throw
“Thy wretched weight, nor dread the deeps below!
She spoke, and vanish'd with the voice—I rise,
And silent tears fall trickling from my eyes.
I go, ye Nymphs! those rocks and seas to prove;
How much I fear, but ah, how much I love!
I go, ye nymphs! where furious love inspires;
Let female fears submit to female fires.
To rocks and seas I fly from Phaon's hate,
And hope from seas and rocks a milder fate.
Ye gentle gales, beneath my body blow,
And softly lay me on the waves below!
And thou, kind Love, my sinking limbs sustain,
Spread thy soft wings, and waft me o'er the main,
Nor let a Lover's death the guiltless flood profane!
On Phœbus' shrine my harp I'll then bestow,
And this inscription shall be plac'd below.
“Here she who sung, to him that did inspire,
“Sapho to Phœbus consecrates her Lyre;
“What suits with Sapho, Phœbus, suits with thee;
“The gift, the giver, and the God agree.
But why, alas, relentless youth, ah why
To distant seas must tender Sapho fly?
Thy charms than those may far more pow'rful be,
And Phœbus' self is less a God to me.
Ah! can'st thou doom me to the rocks and sea,
O far more faithless and more hard than they?
Ah! can'st thou rather see this tender breast
Dash'd on those rocks, than to thy bosom prest?
This breast which once, in vain! you lik'd so well;
Where the Loves play'd, and where the Muses dwell.
Alas! the Muses now no more inspire,
Untun'd my lute, and silent is my lyre,
My languid numbers have forgot to flow,
And fancy sinks beneath a weight of woe.
Ye Lesbian virgins, and ye Lesbian dames,
Themes of my verse, and objects of my flames,
No more your groves with my glad songs shall ring,
No more these hands shall touch the trembling string:
My Phaon's fled, and I those arts resign,
(Wretch that I am, to call that Phaon mine!)
Return, fair youth, return, and bring along
Joy to my soul, and vigour to my song:
Absent from thee, the Poet's flame expires,
But ah! how fiercely burn the Lover's fires?
Gods! can no pray'rs, no sighs, no numbers move
One savage heart, or teach it how to love?
The winds my pray'rs, my sighs, my numbers bear,
The flying winds have lost them all in air!
Oh when, alas! shall more auspicious gales
To these fond eyes restore thy welcome sails?
If you return—ah why these long delays?
Poor Sapho dies, while careless Phaon stays.
O launch thy bark, nor fear the watry plain;
Venus for thee shall smooth her native main.
O launch thy bark, secure of prosp'rous gales;
Cupid for thee shall spread the swelling sails.
If you will fly—(yet ah! what cause can be,
Too cruel youth, that you should fly from me?)
If not from Phaon I must hope for ease,
Ah let me seek it from the raging seas:
To raging seas unpity'd I'll remove,
And either cease to live, or cease to love!



Shields, helms, and swords all jangle as they hang,
And sound formidinous with angry clang.



So swift,—this moment here, the next 'tis gone,
So imperceptible the motion.



O Nash! more blest in ev'ry other thing,
But in thy Poet wretched as a King!
Thy Realm disarm'd of each offensive Tool,
Ah! leave not this, this Weapon to a Fool.
Thy happy Reign all other Discord quells;
Oh doe but silence Cibber, and the Bells.
Apollo's genuine Sons thy fame shall raise
And all Mankind, but Cibber, sing thy praise.



Yes, we have liv'd—one pang, and then we part!
May Heav'n, dear Father! now, have all thy Heart.
Yet ah! how once we lov'd, remember still,
Till you are Dust like me.
Dear Shade! I will:
Then mix this Dust with thine—O spotless Ghost!
O more than Fortune, Friends, or Country lost!
Is there on earth one Care, one Wish beside?
Yes—Save my Country, Heav'n,
—He said, and dy'd.



 'Tis true, my Lord, I gave my word,
I would be with you, June the third;
Chang'd it to August, and (in short)
Have kept it—as you do at Court.
You humour me when I am sick,
Why not when I am splenatick?
In town, what Objects could I meet?
The shops shut up in every street,
And Fun'rals black'ning all the Doors,
And yet more melancholy Whores:
And what a dust in ev'ry place!
And a thin Court that wants your Face,
And Fevers raging up and down,
And W&sblank; and H&sblank; both in town!
 “The Dog-days are no more the case.”
'Tis true, but Winter comes apace:
Then southward let your Bard retire,
Hold out some months 'twixt Sun and Fire,
And you shall see, the first warm Weather,
Me and the Butterflies together.
 My lord, your Favours well I know;
'Tis with Distinction you bestow;
And not to every one that comes,
Just as a Scotsman does his Plumbs.
“Pray take them, Sir,—Enough's a Feast:
“Eat some, and pocket up the rest—”
What rob your Boys? those pretty rogues!—
“No Sir, you'll leave them to the Hogs.”
Thus Fools with Compliments besiege ye,
Contriving never to oblige ye.
Scatter your Favours on a Fop,
Ingratitude's the certain crop;
And 'tis but just, I'll tell you wherefore,
You give the things you never care for.
A wise man always is or should
Be mighty ready to do good;
But makes a diff'rence in his thought
Betwixt a Guinea and a Groat.
 Now this I'll say, you'll find in me
A safe Companion, and a free;
But if you'd have me always near—
A word, pray, in your Honour's ear.
I hope it is your Resolution
To give me back my Constitution!
The sprightly Wit, the lively Eye,
Th'engaging Smile, the Gaiety,
That laugh'd down many a Summer's Sun,
And kept you up so oft till one;
And all that voluntary Vein,
As when Belinda rais'd my Strain.
 A Weasel once made shift to slink
In at a Corn-loft thro' a Chink;
But having amply stuff'd his skin,
Cou'd not get out as he got in:
Which one belonging to the House
('Twas not a Man, it was a Mouse)
Observing, cry'd, “You scape not so,
“Lean as you came, Sir, you must go.”
 Sir, you may spare your Application
I'm no such Beast, nor his Relation;
Nor one that Temperance advance,
Cramm'd to the throat with Ortolans:
Extremely ready to resign
All that may make me none of mine.
South-sea Subscriptions take who please,
Leave me but Liberty and Ease.
'Twas what I said to Craggs and Child,
Who prais'd my Modesty, and smil'd.
Give me, I cry'd, (enough for me)
My Bread, and Independency!
So bought an Annual Rent or two.
And liv'd—just as you see I do;
Near fifty, and without a Wife,
I trust that sinking Fund, my Life.
Can I retrench? Yes, mighty well,
Shrink back to my Paternal Cell,
A little House, with Trees a-row,
And like its Master, very low,
There dy'd my Father, no man's Debtor,
And there I'll die, nor worse nor better.
To set this matter full before you,
Our old Friend Swift will tell his Story.
“Harley, the Nation's great Support,”—
But you may read it, I stop short.



 Again? new Tumults in my Breast?
Ah spare me, Venus! let me, let me rest!
    I am not now, alas! the man
As in the gentle Reign of My Queen Anne.
    Ah sound no more thy soft alarms,
Nor circle sober fifty with thy Charms.
    Mother too fierce of dear Desires!
Turn, turn to willing Hearts your wanton fires.
    To Number five direct your Doves,
There spread round Murray all your blooming Loves;
    Noble and young, who strikes the heart
With every sprightly, every decent part;
    Equal, the injur'd to defend,
To charm the Mistress, or to fix the Friend.
    He, with a hundred Arts refin'd,
Shall stretch thy Conquests over half the kind:
    To him each Rival shall submit,
Make but his riches equal to his Wit.
    Then shall thy Form the Marble grace,
(Thy Græcian Form) and Chloe lend the Face:
    His House, embosom'd in the Grove,
Sacred to social Life and social Love,
    Shall glitter o'er the pendent green,
Where Thames reflects the visionary Scene.
     Thither, the silver-sounding Lyres
Shall call the smiling Loves, and young Desires;
    There, every Grace and Muse shall throng,
Exalt the Dance, or animate the Song;
    There, Youths and Nymphs, in consort gay,
Shall hail the rising, close the parting day.
    With me, alas! those joys are o'er;
For me, the vernal Garlands bloom no more.
    Adieu! fond hope of mutual fire,
The still-believing, still-renew'd desire;
    Adieu! the heart-expanding bowl,
And all the kind Deceivers of the soul!
    —But why? ah tell me, ah too dear!
Steals down my cheek th'involuntary Tear?
    Why words so flowing, thoughts so free,
Stop, or turn nonsense at one glance of Thee?
    Thee, drest in Fancy's airy beam,
Absent I follow thro' th'extended Dream,
    Now, now I seize, I clasp thy charms,
And now you burst, (ah cruel!) from my arms,
    And swiftly shoot along the Mall,
    Or softly glide by the Canal,
    Now shown by Cynthia's silver Ray,
And now, on rolling Waters snatch'd away.



 Lest you should think that Verse shall die,
    Which sounds the Silver Thames along,
Taught on the Wings of Truth, to fly
    Above the reach of vulgar Song;
 Tho' daring Milton sits Sublime,
    In Spencer native Muses play;
Nor yet shall Waller yield to time,
    Nor pensive Cowley's moral Lay.
 Sages and Chiefs long since had birth
    E're Cæsar was, or Newton nam'd,
These rais'd new Empires o'er the Earth,
    And Those new Heav'ns and Systems fram'd;
 Vain was the chief's and sage's pride
    They had no Poet and they dyd!
In vain they schem'd, in vain they bled
    They had no Poet and are dead!



The Doctor and Dean, Pope, Parnell and Gay
In manner submissive most humbly do pray,
That your Lordship would once let your Cares all alone
And Climb the dark Stairs to your Friends who have none:
To your Friends who at least have no Cares but to please you
To a good honest Junta that never will teaze you.



    A pox of all Senders
    For any Pretenders
Who tell us these troublesome stories,
    In their dull hum-drum key
    Of Arma Virumque
Hannoniae qui primus ab oris.
    A fig too for Hr
    Who prates like his Grand mere
And all his old Friends would rebuke
    In spite of the Carle
    Give us but our Earle,
And the Devil may take their Duke.
    Then come and take part in
    The Memoirs of Martin,
Lay by your White Staff and gray Habit,
    For trust us, friend Mortimer
    Should you live years forty more
Haec olim meminisse juvabit.



My Lord, forsake your Politick Utopians,
To sup, like Jove, with blameless Ethiopians



Here lye two poor Lovers, who had the mishap
Tho very chaste people, to die of a Clap.



Think not by rigorous judgment seiz'd,
    A pair so faithful could expire;
Victims so pure Heav'n saw well pleas'd
    And snatch'd them in Cœlestial fire.
Live well and fear no sudden fate;
    When God calls Virtue to the grave,
Alike tis Justice, soon or late,
    Mercy alike to kill or save.
Virtue unmov'd can hear the Call,
And face the Flash that melts the Ball.



When Eastern lovers feed the fun'ral fire,
On the same pile the faithful fair expire;
Here pitying heav'n that virtue mutual found,
And blasted both, that it might neither wound.
Hearts so sincere th'Almighty saw well pleas'd,
Sent his own lightning, and the Victims seiz'd.



Thyrsis, the music of that murm'ring spring,
Is not so mournful as the strains you sing.
Nor rivers winding thro' the vales below,
So sweetly warble, or so smoothly flow.
 Now sleeping flocks on their soft fleeces lie,
The moon, serene in glory, mounts the sky,
While silent birds forget their tuneful lays,
Oh sing of Daphne's fate, and Daphne's praise!
Behold the groves that shine with silver frost,
Their beauty wither'd, and their verdure lost.
Here shall I try the sweet Alexis' strain,
That call'd the list'ning Dryads to the plain?
 Thames heard the numbers as he flow'd along,
And bade his willows learn the moving song.
So may kind rains their vital moisture yield,
And swell the future harvest of thy field.
Begin; this charge the dying Daphne gave,
And said; “Ye shepherds, sing around my grave!
Sing, while beside the shaded tomb I mourn,
And with fresh bays her rural shrine adorn.
Ye gentle Muses leave your crystal spring,
Let Nymphs and Sylvans cypress garlands bring;
 Ye weeping Loves, the stream with myrtles hide,
And break your bows, as when Adonis dy'd;
And with your golden darts, now useless grown,
Inscribe a verse on this relenting stone:
“Let nature change, let heav'n and earth deplore,
“Fair Daphne's dead, and love is now no more!
'Tis done, and nature's various charms decay;
See gloomy clouds obscure the chearful day!
Now hung with pearls the dropping trees appear,
Their faded honours scatter'd on her bier.
See, where on earth the flow'ry glories lie,
With her they flourish'd, and with her they die.
Ah what avail the beauties nature wore?
Fair Daphne's dead, and beauty is no more!
For her, the flocks refuse their verdant food,
 Nor thirsty heifers seek the gliding flood.
The silver swans her hapless fate bemoan,
In notes more sad than when they sing their own;
In hollow caves sweet Echo silent lies,
Silent, or only to her name replies,
Her name with pleasure once she taught the shore,
Now Daphne's dead, and pleasure is no more!
No grateful dews descend from ev'ning skies,
Nor morning odours from the flow'rs arise;
No rich perfumes refresh the fruitful field,
Nor fragrant herbs their native incense yield.
The balmy Zephyrs, silent since her death,
Lament the ceasing of a sweeter breath;
Th'industrious bees neglect their golden store;
Fair Daphne's dead, and sweetness is no more!
No more the mounting larks, while Daphne sings,
Shall list'ning in mid air suspend their wings;
No more the nightingales repeat her lays,
Or hush'd with wonder, hearken from the sprays:
No more the streams their murmurs shall forbear,
A sweeter music than their own to hear,
But tell the reeds, and tell the vocal shore,
Fair Daphne's dead, and music is no more!
Her fate is whisper'd by the gentle breeze,
And told in sighs to all the trembling trees;
The trembling trees, in ev'ry plain and wood,
Her fate remurmur to the silver flood;
The silver flood, so lately calm, appears
Swell'd with new passion, and o'erflows with tears;
The winds and trees and floods her death deplore,
Daphne, our grief! our glory now no more!
 But see! where Daphne wond'ring mounts on high,
Above the clouds, above the starry sky!
Eternal beauties grace the shining scene,
Fields ever fresh, and groves for ever green!
There while you rest in Amaranthine bow'rs,
Or from those meads select unfading flow'rs,
Behold us kindly who your name implore,
Daphne, our Goddess, and our grief no more!
Ye gentle Muses leave your crystal spring,
Let Nymphs and Sylvans cypress garlands bring;
 Ye weeping Loves, the stream with myrtles hide,
And break your bows, as when Adonis dy'd;
And with your golden darts, now useless grown,
Inscribe a verse on this relenting stone:
“Let nature change, let heav'n and earth deplore,
“Fair Daphne's dead, and love is now no more!
'Tis done, and nature's various charms decay;
See gloomy clouds obscure the chearful day!
Now hung with pearls the dropping trees appear,
Their faded honours scatter'd on her bier.
See, where on earth the flow'ry glories lie,
With her they flourish'd, and with her they die.
Ah what avail the beauties nature wore?
Fair Daphne's dead, and beauty is no more!
For her, the flocks refuse their verdant food,
 Nor thirsty heifers seek the gliding flood.
The silver swans her hapless fate bemoan,
In notes more sad than when they sing their own;
In hollow caves sweet Echo silent lies,
Silent, or only to her name replies,
Her name with pleasure once she taught the shore,
Now Daphne's dead, and pleasure is no more!
No grateful dews descend from ev'ning skies,
Nor morning odours from the flow'rs arise;
No rich perfumes refresh the fruitful field,
Nor fragrant herbs their native incense yield.
The balmy Zephyrs, silent since her death,
Lament the ceasing of a sweeter breath;
Th'industrious bees neglect their golden store;
Fair Daphne's dead, and sweetness is no more!
No more the mounting larks, while Daphne sings,
Shall list'ning in mid air suspend their wings;
No more the nightingales repeat her lays,
Or hush'd with wonder, hearken from the sprays:
No more the streams their murmurs shall forbear,
A sweeter music than their own to hear,
But tell the reeds, and tell the vocal shore,
Fair Daphne's dead, and music is no more!
Her fate is whisper'd by the gentle breeze,
And told in sighs to all the trembling trees;
The trembling trees, in ev'ry plain and wood,
Her fate remurmur to the silver flood;
The silver flood, so lately calm, appears
Swell'd with new passion, and o'erflows with tears;
The winds and trees and floods her death deplore,
Daphne, our grief! our glory now no more!
 But see! where Daphne wond'ring mounts on high,
Above the clouds, above the starry sky!
Eternal beauties grace the shining scene,
Fields ever fresh, and groves for ever green!
There while you rest in Amaranthine bow'rs,
Or from those meads select unfading flow'rs,
Behold us kindly who your name implore,
Daphne, our Goddess, and our grief no more!
How all things listen, while thy Muse complains!
Such silence waits on Philomela's strains,
In some still ev'ning, when the whisp'ring breeze
Pants on the leaves, and dies upon the trees.
 To thee, bright goddess, oft' a lamb shall bleed,
If teeming ewes encrease my fleecy breed.
While plants their shade, or flow'rs their odours give,
Thy name, thy honour, and thy praise shall live!
See pale Orion sheds unwholesome dews,
 Arise, the pines a noxious shade diffuse;
Sharp Boreas blows, and Nature feels decay,
Time conquers all, and we must Time obey.
 Adieu ye vales, ye mountains, streams and groves,
Adieu ye shepherd's rural lays and loves;
Adieu my flocks, farewell ye sylvan crew,
Daphne farewell, and all the world adieu!



 
Books and the Man I sing, the first who brings
 
The Smithfield Muses to the Ear of Kings.
 
Say great Patricians! (since your selves inspire
These wond'rous works: so Jove and Fate require)
Say from what cause, in vain decry'd and curst,
 
Still Dunce the second reigns like Dunce the first.
In eldest time, e'er mortals writ or read,
E're Pallas issu'd from the Thund'rer's head,
Dulness o'er all possess'd her antient right,
 
Daughter of Chaos and eternal Night:
Fate in their dotage this fair ideot gave,
Gross as her sire, and as her mother grave,
Laborious, heavy, busy, bold, and blind,
She rul'd in native Anarchy, the mind.
Still her old empire to confirm, she tries,
For born a Goddess, Dulness never dies.
O Thou! whatever Title please thine ear,
Dean, Drapier, Bickerstaff, or Gulliver,
Whether thou chuse Cervantes' serious air,
Or laugh and shake in Rab'lais easy Chair,
 
Or praise the Court, or magnify Mankind,
Or thy griev'd Country's copper chains unbind;
 
From thy Bæotia tho' Her Pow'r retires,
 
Grieve not, my Swift at ought our realm acquires,
Here pleas'd behold her mighty wings out-spread,
 
To hatch a new Saturnian Age of Lead.
 
Where wave the tatter'd ensigns of Rag-fair,
 
A yawning ruin hangs and nods in air;
Keen, hollow winds howl thro' the bleak recess,
Emblem of Music caus'd by Emptiness.
Here in one bed two shiv'ring Sisters lye,
The Cave of Poverty and Poetry.
 
 
This, the Great Mother dearer held than all
The clubs of Quidnunc's, or her own Guild-hall.
Here stood her Opium, here she nurs'd her Owls,
And destin'd here the imperial seat of fools.
Hence springs each weekly Muse, the living boast
 
Of Curl's chaste press, and Lintot's rubric post,
 
 
Hence hymning Tyburn's elegiac lay,
 
Hence the soft sing-song on Cecilia's day,
 
Sepulchral Lyes, our holy walls to grace,
And New-year Odes, and all the Grubstreet race.
 
'Twas here in clouded majesty she shone;
Four guardian Virtues, round, support her throne;
 
Fierce champion Fortitude, that knows no fears
Of hisses, blows, or want, or loss of ears:
Calm Temperance, whose blessings those partake
 
Who hunger, and who thirst, for scribling sake:
Prudence, whose glass presents th'approaching jayl:
Poetic Justice; with her lifted scale;
Where, in nice balance, truth with gold she weighs,
And solid pudding against empty praise.
 
Here she beholds the Chaos dark and deep,
Where, nameless Somethings in their causes sleep,
Till genial Jacob, or a warm Third-day
Call forth each mass, a poem, or a play:
How hints, like spawn, scarce quick in embryo lie,
How new-born nonsense first is taught to cry,
Maggots half-form'd, in rhyme exactly meet,
And learn to crawl upon poetic feet.
 
Here one poor word a hundred clenches makes,
 
And ductile dulness new meanders takes;
There motley Images her fancy strike,
Figures ill-pair'd, and Similies unlike.
She sees a Mob of Metaphors advance,
Pleas'd with the madness of the mazy dance:
How Tragedy and Comedy embrace;
 
How Farce and Epic get a jumbled race;
How Time himself stands still at her command,
Realms shift their place, and Ocean turns to land.
 
Here gay Description Ægypt glads with show'rs,
Or gives to Zembla fruits, to Barca flow'rs;
Glitt'ring with ice here hoary hills are seen,
There painted vallies of eternal green,
On cold December fragrant chaplets blow,
And heavy harvests nod beneath the snow.
 
All these and more, the cloud-compelling Queen
Beholds thro' fogs, that magnify the scene:
She, tinsel'd o'er in robes of varying hues,
With self-applause her wild creation views,
Sees momentary monsters rise and fall,
And with her own fools-colours gilds them all.
 
'Twas on the day, when Thorold, rich and grave,
Like Cimon triumph'd both on land and wave:
(Pomps without guilt, of bloodless swords and maces,
 
Glad chains, warm furs, broad banners, and broad faces)
Now Night descending, the proud scene was o'er,
 
 
But liv'd, in Settle's numbers, one day more.
Now May'rs and Shrieves all hush'd and satiate lay,
Yet eat, in dreams, the custard of the day;
While pensive Poets painful vigils keep,
Sleepless themselves to give their readers sleep.
Much to the mindful Queen the feast recalls
What City Swans once sung within the walls;
Much she revolves their arts, their ancient praise,
 
And sure succession down from Heywood's days.
She saw with joy the line immortal run,
Each sire imprest and glaring in his son;
So watchful Bruin forms with plastic care
Each growing lump, and brings it to a Bear.
 
She saw old Pryn in restless Daniel shine,
 And Eusden eke out Blackmore's endless line;
She saw slow Philips creep like Tate's poor page,
 
 
And all the mighty Mad in Dennis rage.
In each she marks her image full exprest,
  
But chief, in Tibbald's monster-breeding breast;
Sees Gods with Dæmons in strange league ingage,
And earth, and heav'n, and hell her battles wage.
 
She ey'd the Bard, where supperless he sate,
And pin'd, unconscious of his rising fate;
Studious he sate, with all his books around,
Sinking from thought to thought, a vast profound!
Plung'd for his sense, but found no bottom there;
Then writ, and flounder'd on, in mere despair.
 
He roll'd his eyes that witness'd huge dismay,
Where yet unpawn'd, much learned lumber lay:
 
Volumes, whose size the space exactly fill'd,
Or which fond authors were so good to gild,
Or where, by sculpture made for ever known,
 
The page admires new beauties, not its own.
 
Here swells the shelf with Ogilby the great:
 
There, stamp'd with arms, Newcastle shines compleat:
Here all his suff'ring brotherhood retire,
And 'scape the martyrdom of jakes and fire;
A Gothic Vatican! of Greece and Rome
 
Well purg'd, and worthy Withers, Quarles, and Blome.
But high above, more solid Learning shone,
The Classics of an Age that heard of none;
 
There Caxton slept, with Wynkin at his side,
One clasp'd in wood, and one in strong cow-hide,
There, sav'd by spice, like mummies, many a year,
Old Bodies of Philosophy appear:
 
De Lyra there a dreadful front extends,
 
And here, the groaning shelves Philemon bends.
Of these, twelve volumes, twelve of amplest size,
Redeem'd from tapers and defrauded pyes,
Inspir'd he seizes: These an altar raise:
An hecatomb of pure, unsully'd lays
That altar crowns: A folio Common place
Founds the whole pyle, of all his works the base;
Quarto's, octavo's, shape the less'ning pyre;
 
And last, a little Ajax tips the spire.
Then he. Great Tamer of all human art!
First in my care, and nearest at my heart:
Dulness! whose good old cause I yet defend,
 
With whom my Muse began, with whom shall end!
O thou, of business the directing soul,
To human heads like byass to the bowl,
Which as more pond'rous makes their aim more true,
Obliquely wadling to the mark in view.
O ever gracious to perplex'd mankind!
Who spread a healing mist before the mind,
And, lest we err by Wit's wild, dancing light,
Secure us kindly in our native night.
Ah! still o'er Britain stretch that peaceful wand,
Which lulls th'Helvetian and Batavian land;
Where rebel to thy throne if Science rise,
She does but shew her coward face and dies;
There, thy good Scholiasts with unweary'd pains
Make Horace flat, and humble Maro's strains:
Here studious I unlucky moderns save,
 
Nor sleeps one error in its father's grave,
Old puns restore, lost blunders nicely seek,
 
And crucify poor Shakespear once a week.
For thee I dim these eves, and stuff this head,
 
With all such reading as was never read;
For thee supplying, in the worst of days,
 
Notes to dull books, and prologues to dull plays;
For thee explain a thing till all men doubt it,
And write about it, Goddess, and about it;
So spins the silk-worm small its slender store,
And labours, 'till it clouds itself all o'er.
Not that my quill to Critiques was confin'd,
My Verse gave ampler lessons to mankind;
So gravest precepts may successless prove,
But sad examples never fail to move.
 
As forc'd from wind-guns, lead itself can fly,
And pond'rous slugs cut swiftly thro' the sky:
As clocks to weight their nimble motion owe,
The wheels above urg'd by the load below;
Me, emptiness and dulness could inspire,
And were my clasticity and fire.
 
Had Heav'n decreed such works a longer date,
Heav'n had decreed to spare the Grubstreet state.
But see great Settle to the dust descend,
And all thy cause and empire at an end!
 
Cou'd Troy be sav'd by any single hand,
His gray-goose weapon must have made her stand.
 
But what can I? my Flaccus cast aside,
 
Take up th'Attorney's (once my better) guide?
 
Or rob the Roman geese of all their glories,
And save the state by cackling to the Tories?
Yes, to my Country I my pen consign,
 
Yes, from this moment, mighty Mist! am thine,
And rival, Curtius! of thy fame and zeal,
O'er head and ears plunge for the publick weal.
 
 
Adieu my children! better thus expire
Unstall'd, unsold, thus glorious mount in fire
Fair without spot; than greas'd by grocer's hands,
 
Or ship'd with Ward to ape and monkey lands,
Or wafting ginger, round the streets to go,
 
And visit alehouse where ye first did grow.
 
With that, he lifted thrice the sparkling brand,
And thrice he dropt it from his quiv'ring hand:
Then lights the structure, with averted eyes;
The rowling smokes involve the sacrifice.
The opening clouds disclose each work by turns,
 
 
Now flames old Memnon, now Rodrigo burns,
In one quick flash see Proserpine expire,
 
And last, his own cold Æschylus took fire.
Then gush'd the tears, as from the Trojan's eyes
 
When the last blaze sent Ilion to the skies.
Rowz'd by the light, old Dulness heav'd the head;
 
Then snatch'd a sheet of Thulè from her bed,
Sudden she flies, and whelms it o're the pyre.
Down sink the flames and with a hiss expire.
Her ample presence fills up all the place;
A veil of fogs dilates her awful face:
 
Great in her charms! as when on Shrieves and May'rs
She looks, and breathes her self into their airs.
 
She bids him wait her to the sacred Dome;
Well-pleas'd he enter'd, and confess'd his home:
So Spirits ending their terrestrial race,
Ascend and recognize their native place.
Raptur'd, he gazes round the dear retreat,
 
And in sweet numbers celebrates the seat.
Here to her Chosen all her works she shews;
Prose swell'd to verse, Verse loitring into prose;
How random thoughts now meaning chance to find,
Now leave all memory of sense behind:
How prologues into prefaces decay,
And these to notes are fritter'd quite away.
How index-learning turns no student pale,
Yet holds the eel of science by the tail.
How, with less reading than makes felons 'scape,
Less human genius than God gives an ape,
Small thanks to France, and none to Rome or Greece,
A past, vamp'd, future, old, reviv'd, new piece,
'Twixt Plautus, Fletcher, Congreve, and Corneille,
 
 
 
Can make a Cibber, Johnson, or Ozell.
The Goddess then, o'er his anointed head,
With mystic words, the sacred Opium shed;
And lo! her bird, a monster of a fowl!
 
Something betwixt a Heideggre and owl,
Perch'd on his crown. All hail! and hail again,
My son! the promis'd land expects thy reign.
Know, Settle cloy'd with custard, and with praise,
Is gather'd to the dull of antient days,
Safe, where no Critics damn, no duns molest,
 
 
Where wretched Withers, Banks, and Gildon rest,
 
And high-born Howard, more majestic sire,
 
Impatient waits, till  grace the quire.
I see a Chief, who leads my chosen sons,
All arm'd with points, antitheses and puns!
I see a Monarch, proud my race to own!
 
A Nursing-mother, born to rock the throne!
Schools, courts, and senates shall my laws obey,
Till Albion, as Hibernia, bless my sway.
She ceas'd: her owls responsive clap the wing,
And Grubstreet garrets roar, God save the king.
So when Jove's block descended from on high,
 
(As sings thy great forefather, Ogilby,)
Loud thunder to its bottom shook the bog,
And the hoarse nation croak'd, God save King Log
 
High on a gorgeous seat, that far out-shone
 
 
Henley's gilt tub, or Fleckno's Irish throne,
 
Or that, where on her Curls the public pours,
All-bounteous, fragrant grains, and golden show'rs:
Great Tibbald nods: The proud Parnassian sneer,
The conscious simper, and the jealous leer,
Mix on his look. All eyes direct their rays
On him, and crowds grow foolish as they gaze.
Not with more glee, by hands pontific crown'd,
With scarlet hats, wide waving, circled round,
 
Rome in her capitol saw Querno sit,
Thron'd on sev'n hills, the Antichrist of wit.
To grace this honour'd day, the Queen proclaims
By herald hawkers, high heroic games.
She summons all her sons: An endless band
Pours forth, and leaves unpeopled half the land;
A motley mixture! in long wigs, in bags,
In silks, in crapes, in garters, and in rags,
From drawing rooms, from colleges, from garrets,
On horse, on foot, in hacks, and gilded chariots,
All who true dunces in her cause appear'd,
And all who knew those dunces to reward.
Amid that Area wide she took her stand,
Where the tall May-pole once o'er look'd the Strand.
But now, so Anne and Piety ordain,
A church collects the saints of Drury-lane.
With authors, Sationers obey'd the call,
The field of glory is a field for all;
Glory, and gain, th'industrious tribe provoke;
And gentle Dulness ever loves a joke.
 
A Poet's form she plac'd before their eyes,
And bad the nimblest racer seize the prize;
No meagre, muse-rid mope, adust and thin,
In a dun night-gown of his own loose skin,
 
But such a bulk as no twelve bards could raise,
Twelve starveling bards of these degen'rate days.
All as a partridge plump, full-fed, and fair,
She form'd this image of well-bodied air,
With pert flat eyes she window'd well its head,
A brain of feathers, and a heart of lead,
And empty words she gave, and sounding strain,
But senseless, lifeless! idol void and vain!
 
Never was dash'd out, at one lucky hit,
A fool, so just a copy of a wit;
So like, that critics said, and courtiers swore,
 
 
A Wit it was, and call'd the phantom More.
All gaze with ardour: some, a poet's name,
Others, a sword-knot and lac'd suit inflame.
 
But lofty Lintot in the circle rose;
“This prize is mine; who tempt it, are my foes:
“With me began this genius, and shall end.”
He spoke, and who with Lintot shall contend!
Fear held them mute. Alone untaught to fear
 
 
Stood dauntless Curl, “Behold that rival here!
“The race by vigor, not by vaunts is won;
 
“So take the hindmost Hell—He said, and run.
Swift as a bard the bailiff leaves behind,
He left huge Lintot, and out-strip'd the wind.
As when a dab-chick waddles thro' the copse,
 
On feet, and wings, and flies, and wades, and hops;
So lab'ring on, with shoulders, hands, and head,
Wide as a windmill all his figure spread,
With legs expanded Bernard urg'd the race,
And seem'd to emulate great Jacob's pace.
Full in the middle way there stood a lake,
 
Which Curl's Corinna chanc'd that morn to make:
(Such was her won't, at early drawn to drop
Her evening cates before his neighbour's shop,)
 
Here fortun'd Curl to slide; loud shout the band,
 
And Bernard! Bernard! rings thro' all the Strand.
 
Obscene with filth the miscreant lies bewray'd,
Fal'n in the plash his wickedness had laid:
Then first (if poets aught of truth declare)
The caitiff Vaticide conceiv'd a prayer.
Hear Jove! whose name my bards and I adore,
As much at least as any God's, or more;
And him and his if more devotion warms,
 
Down with the Bible, up with the Pope's Arms.
 
 
A place there is, betwixt earth, air and seas,
Where from Ambrosia, Jove retires for ease.
There in his seat two spacious vents appear,
On this he sits to that he leans his ear,
And hears the various vows of fond mankind,
Some beg an eastern; some a western wind:
All vain petitions, mounting to the sky;
With reams abundant this abode supply;
Amus'd he reads, and then returns the bills
 
Sign'd with that Ichor which from Gods distils.
 
In office here fair Cloacina stands,
And ministers to Jove with purest hands;
Forth from the heap she pick'd her vot'ry's pray'r,
And plac'd it next him, a distinction rare!
 
(Oft, as he fish'd her nether realms for wit,
The Goddess favour'd him, and favours yet.)
Renew'd by ordure's sympathetic force,
 
As oil'd with magic juices for the course,
Vig'rous he rises, from th'effluvia strong
Imbibes new-life and scours and stinks along:
Re-passes Lintot, vindicates the race,
Nor heeds the brown dishonours of his face.
And now the victor stretch'd stretch'd his eager hand
Where the tall Nothing stood, or seem'd to stand;
 
A shapeless shade, it melted from his sight,
Like forms in clouds, or visions of the night!
 
To seize his papers, Curl, was next thy care;
 
His papers light, fly diverse, tost in air:
Songs, sonnets, epigrams the winds uplift,
And whisk 'em back to Evans, Younge, and Swift.
Th'embroider'd suit, at least, he deem'd his prey;
 
That suit, an unpay'd taylor snatch'd away!
No rag, no scrap, of all the beau, or wit,
That once so flutter'd, and that once so writ.
Heav'n rings with laughter: Of the laughter vain,
Dulness, good Queen, repeats the jest again.
Three wicked imps of her own Grubstreet choir
 
She deck'd like Congreve, Addison and Prior;
 
Mears, Warner, Wilkins run: delusive thought!
 
Breval, Besaleel, Bond, the varlets caught.
Curl stretches after Gay, but Gay is gone,
 
He grasps an empty Joseph for a John:
So Proteus, hunted in a nobler shape,
Became, when seiz'd, a puppy, or an ape.
To him the Goddess. Son! thy grief lay down,
 
And turn this whole illusion on the town.
As the sage dame, experienc'd in her trade,
By names of Toasts retails each batter'd jade,
(Whence hapless Monsieur much complains at Paris
Of wrongs from Duchesses and Lady Mary's)
Be thine, my stationer! this magic gift;
 
 
Cook shall be Prior, and Concanen, Swift;
So shall each hostile name become our own,
 
And we too boast our Garth and Addison.
 
With that, she gave him (piteous of his case,
 
Yet smiling at his ruful length of face.)
 
A shaggy tap'stry, worthy to be spread
 
On Codrus' old, or Dunton's modern bed;
Instructive work! whose wry mouth'd portraiture
Display'd the sates her confessors endure.
Ear-less on high, stood un-abash'd Defoe,
 
And Tuchin flagrant from the scourge, below:
 
There Ridpath, Roper, cudgell'd might ye view,
The very worsted still look'd black and blue:
 
 
Himself among the storied Chiefs he spies,
As from the blanket high in air he flies,
And oh! (he cry'd) what street, what lane but knows
Our purgings, pumpings, blanketings and blows?
In ev'ry loom our labours shall be seen,
 
And the fresh vomit run for ever green!
 
 
See in the circle next, Eliza plac'd;
 
Two babes of love close clinging to her waste;
Fair as before her works she stands confess'd,
 
In flow'rs and pearls by bounteous Kirkall dress'd.
The Goddess then: “Who best can send on high
“The salient spout, far-streaming to the sky:
 
“His be yon Juno of majestic size,
“With cow like udders, and with ox-like eyes.
 
 
“This China-Jordan, let the chief o'ercome
“Replenish, not ingloriously, at home.
 
Chapman and Curl accept the glorious strife,
(Tho' one his son dissuades, and one his wife)
 
This on his manly confidence relies,
That on his vigour and superior size.
First Chapman lean'd against his letter'd post;
It rose, and labour'd to a curve at most.
 
So Jove's bright bow displays its watry round,
(Sure sign, that no spectator shall be drown'd)
A second effort brought but new disgrace,
The wild Mæander wash'd the Artist's face:
Thus the small jett which hasty hands unlock,
Spirts in the gardner's eyes who turns the cock.
Not so from shameless Curl; impetuous spread
The stream, and smoaking, flourish'd o'er his head.
 
So, (fam'd like thee for turbulence and horns,)
Eridanus his humble fountain scorns;
 
Thro' half the heav'ns he pours th'exalted urn;
His rapid waters in their passage burn.
Swift as it mounts, all follow with their eyes;
Still happy Impudence obtains the prize.
 
Thou triumph'st, Victor of the high-wrought day,
And the pleas'd dame, soft-smiling leads away.
Chapman, thro' perfect modesty o'ercome,
Crown'd with the Jordan, walks contented home.
But now for Authors nobler palms remain;
Room for my Lord! three Jockeys in his train:
Six huntsmen with a shout precede his chair;
He grins, and looks broad nonsense with a stare.
His honour'd meaning Dulness thus exprest;
“He wins this Patron who can tickle best.
He chinks his purse, and takes his seat of state:
With ready quills the Dedicators wait,
Now at his head the dext'rous task commence,
And instant, fancy feels th'imputed sense;
Now gentle touches wanton o'er his face,
He struts Adonis, and affects grimace:
 
Rolli the feather to his ear conveys,
Then his nice taste directs our Opera's:
 Bentley his mouth with classic flatt'ry opes,
And the puff'd orator bursts out in tropes.
 
But Welsted most the poet's healing balm
Strives to extract, from his soft, giving palm;
Unlucky Welsted! thy unfeeling master,
The more thou ticklest, gripes his fist the faster.
While thus each hand promotes the pleasing pain,
And quick sensations skip from vein to vein,
 
A youth unknown to Phœbus, in despair,
Puts his last refuge all in heav'n and pray'r.
What force have pious vows? the Queen of Love
His Sister sends, her vot'ress, from above.
As taught by Venus, Paris learnt the art
To touch Achilles' only tender part;
Secure, thro' her, the noble prize to carry,
He marches off, his Grace's Secretary,
Now turn to diff'rent sports (the Goddess cries)
And learn, my sons, the wond'rous pow'r of Noise.
 
To move, to raise, to ravish ev'ry heart,
With Shakespear's nature, or with Johnson's art,
Let others aim: 'Tis yours to shake the soul
 
With Thunder rumbling from the mustard bowl,
With horns and trumpets now to madness swell,
 
Now sink in sorrows with a tolling Bell.
Such happy arts attention can command,
When fancy flags, and sense is at a stand.
 
Improve we these. Three Cat-calls be the bribe,
Of him, whose chatt'ring shames the Monkey tribe,
And his this Drum, whose hoarse heroic base
Drowns the loud clarion of the braying Ass.
Now thousand tongues are heard in one loud din:
The Monkey-mimicks rush disordant in:
'Twas chatt'ring, grinnning, mouthing, jabb'ring all,
 
And Noise, and Norton, Brangling, and Breval,
Dennis, and Dissonance; and captious art,
And snip-snap short, and interruption smart.
 
Hold (cry'd the Queen) A Cat-call each shall win,
Equal your merits! equal is your din!
But that this well-disputed game may end,
Sound forth, my Brayers, and the welkin rend.
 
As when the long-ear'd milky mothers wait
At some sick miser's triple-bolted gate,
For their defrauded, absent foals they make
A moan so loud, that all the Guild awake;
Sore sighs Sir Gilbert, starting, at the bray,
From dreams of millions, and three groats to pay!
So swells each wind-pipe; Ass intones to Ass,
Harmonic twang, of leather, horn, and brass;
Such, as from lab'ring lungs th'Enthusiast blows,
High sounds, attempted to the vocal nose.
But far o'er all, sonorous Blackmore's strain;
 
Walls, steeples, skies, bray back to him again:
In Tot'nam fields, the brethren with amaze
 
Prick all their ears up, and forget to graze;
 
Long Chanc'ry-lane retentive rolls the sound,
And courts to courts return it round and round:
Thames wasts it thence to Rufus' roaring hall,
And Hungerford re-ecchoes bawl for bawl.
All hail him victor in both gifts of song,
 
Who sings so loudly, and who sings so long.
This labour past, by Bridewell all descend,
 
(As morning-pray'r and flagellation end)
To where Fleet-ditch with disemboguing streams
Rolls the large tribute of dead dogs to Thames,
 
 
The King of dykes! than whom no sluice of mud
With deeper sable blots the silver flood.
“Here strip my children! here at once leap in!
 
“Here prove who best can dash thro' thick and thin,
“And who the most in love of dirt excel,
“Or dark dexterity of groping well.
“Who flings most filth, and wide pollutes around
 
“The stream, be his the Weekly Journals bound;
“A pig of lead to him who dives the best:
 
“A peck of coals a-piece shall glad the rest.
 In naked majesty Oldmixon stands,
And Milo-like, surveys his arms and hands,
Then sighing, thus. “And am I now threescore?
“Ah why, ye Gods! should two and two make four?
He said, and climb'd a stranded Lighter's height,
Shot to the black abyss, and plung'd down-right.
The Senior's judgment all the crowd admire,
Who but to sink the deeper, rose the higher.
 
Next Smedley div'd; slow circles dimpled o'er
The quaking mud, that clos'd, and op'd no more.
 
All look, all sigh, and call on Smedley lost;
Smedley in vain resounds thro' all the coast.
 
Then  essay'd; scarce vanish'd out of sight,
He buoys up instant, and returns to light:
He bears no token of the sabler streams,
And mounts far off among the Swans of Thames,
 
True to the bottom, see Concanen creep,
A cold, long-winded, native of the deep!
If perseverance gain the Diver's prize,
 
Not everlasting Blackmore this denies:
No noise, no stir, no motion can'st thou make,
Th'unconscious flood sleeps o'er thee like a lake.
 
Not so bold Arnall; with a weight of scull,
Furious he sinks, precipitately dull.
Whirlpools and storms his circling arm invest,
With all the might of gravitation blest.
No crab more active in the dirty dance,
Downward to climb, and backward to advance.
He brings up half the bottom on his head,
And loudly claims the Journals and the Lead.
Sudden, a burst of thunder shook the flood:
 
Lo Smedley rose in majesty of mud!
Shaking the horrors of his ample brows,
And each ferocious feature grim with ooze.
 
Greater he looks, and more than mortal stares;
Then thus the wonders of the deep declares.
First he relates, how sinking to the chin,
Smit with his mien, the mud-nymphs suck'd him in:
How young Lutetia, softer than the down,
Nigrina black, and Merdamante brown,
Vy'd for his love in jetty bow'rs below;
 
As Hylas fair was ravish'd long ago.
Then sung, how shown him by the nut-brown maids
 
A branch of Styx here rises from the Shades,
That tinctur'd as it runs with Lethe's streams,
And wafting vapours from the land of Dreams,
(As under seas Alphæus' secret sluice
Bears Pisa's offerings to his Arethuse)
Pours into Thames: Each City bowl is full
Of the mixt wave, and all who drink grow dull
 
How to the banks where bards departed doze,
They led him soft; how all the bards arose,
 
Taylor, sweet Swan of Thames, majestic bows,
 
And Shadwell nods the poppy on his brows;
 
While Milbourn there, deputed by the rest,
Gave him the cassock, surcingle, and vest;
And “Take (he said) these robes which once were mine,
“Dulness is sacred in a sound Divine.
He ceas'd, and show'd the robe; the crowd confess
The rev'rend Flamen in his lengthen'd dress.
Slow moves the Goddess from the sable flood,
 
(Her Priest preceding) thro' the gates of Lud.
Her Critics there she summons, and proclaims
A gentler exercise to close the games.
Hear you! in whose grave heads, as equal scales,
I weigh what author's heaviness prevails;
Which most conduce to sooth the soul in slumbers,
My Henley's periods, or my Blackmore's numbers?
Attend the trial we propose to make:
If there be man who o'er such works can wake,
Sleep's all-subduing charms who dares defy,
 
And boasts Ulysses' ear with Argus' eye;
To him we grant our amplest pow'rs to sit
Judge of all present, past, and future wit,
To cavil, censure, dictate, right or wrong,
Full, and eternal privilege of tongue.
Three Cambridge Sophs and three pert Templars came,
 
The same their talents, and their tastes the same,
Each prompt to query, answer, and debate,
 
And smit with love of Poesy and Prate,
The pond'rous books two gentle readers bring,
 
The heroes sit; the vulgar form a ring.
The clam'rous crowd is hush'd with mugs of Mum,
Till all tun'd equal, send a gen'ral hum.
Then mount the clerks, and in one lazy tone,
 
Thro' the long, heavy, painful page, drawl on;
Soft creeping, words on words, the sense compose,
At ev'ry line, they stretch, they yawn, they doze.
As to soft gales top-heavy pines bow low
Their heads, and lift them as they cease to blow;
Thus oft they rear, and oft the head decline,
As breathe, or pause, by fits, the airs divine:
And now to this side, now to that, they nod,
As verse, or prose, infuse the drowzy God.
 
Thrice Budgel aim'd to speak, but thrice supprest
By potent Arthur, knock'd his chin and breast.
 
Toland and Tindal, prompt at priests to jeer,
 
Yet silent bow'd to Christ's No kingdom here.
Who sate the nearest, by the words o'ercome
Slept first, the distant nodded to the hum.
Then down are roll'd the books; stretch'd o'er 'em lies
Each gentle clerk, and mutt'ring seals his eyes.
At what a Dutchman plumps into the lakes,
One circle first, and then a second makes,
What Dulness dropt among her sons imprest
Like motion, from one circle to the rest;
So from the mid-most the nutation spreads
 
Round, and more round, o'er all the sea of heads.
 
At last Centlivre felt her voice to fail,
Motteux himself unfinish'd left his tale,
 
Boyer the State, and Law the Stage gave o'er,
Nor Kelsey talk'd, nor Naso whisper'd more;
 
Norton, from Daniel and Ostræa sprung,
Bless'd with his father's front, and mother's tongue,
Hung silent down his never-blushing head;
 
And all was hush'd, as Folly's self lay dead.
Thus the soft gifts of Sleep conclude the day,
And stretch'd on bulks, as usual, Poets lay.
Why should I sing what bards the nightly Muse
Did slumbring visit, and convey to stews:
Who prouder march'd, with magistrates in state,
To some fam'd round-house, ever open gate:
How Laurus lay inspir'd beside a sink,
 
And to mere mortals seem'd a Priest in drink:
 
While others, timely, to the neighbouring Fleet
(Haunt of the Muses) made their safe retreat.
But in her Temple's last recess inclos'd,
On Dulness lap th'Anointed head repos'd.
Him close she curtain'd round with vapours blue,
And soft besprinkled with Cimmerian dew.
 
Then raptures high the seat of sense o'erflow,
Which only heads refin'd from reason know.
Hence, from the straw where Bedlam's Prophet nods,
 
He hears loud Oracles, and talks with Gods:
Hence the Fool's paradise, the Statesman's scheme,
The air-built Castle, and the golden Dream,
The Maid's romantic wish, the Chymist's flame,
And Poet's vision of eternal fame.
And now, on Fancy's easy wing convey'd,
The King descended to th'Elyzian Shade.
 
There, in a dusky vale where Lethe rolls,
 
 
Old Bavius sits, to dip poetic Souls,
And blunt the sense, and fit it for a scull
Of solid proof, impenetrably dull:
Instant when dipt, away they wing their flight,
 
 
Where Brown and Mears unbar the gates of Light,
Demand new bodies, and in Calf's array,
Rush to the world, impatient for the day.
 
Millions and millions on these banks he views,
Thick as the stars of night, and morning dews,
As thick as bees o'er vernal blossoms fly,
 
As thick as eggs at Ward in Pillory.
Wond'ring he gaz'd: When lo! a Sage appears,
 
By his broad shoulders known, and length of ears,
Known by the band and suit which Settle wore,
(His only suit) for twice three years before:
All as the vest, appear'd the wearers frame,
Old in new state, another yet the same.
Bland and familiar as in life, begun
Thus the great Father to the greater Son.
Oh born to see what none can see awake!
Behold the wonders of th'oblivious Lake.
Thou, yet unborn, hast touch'd this sacred shore;
The hand of Bavius drench'd thee o'er and o'er.
But blind to former, as to future Fate,
What mortal knows his pre-existent state?
Who knows how long, thy transmigrating soul
 
Might from Bœotian to Bœotian roll!
How many Dutchmen she vouchsaf'd to thrid?
How many stages thro' old Monks she rid?
And all who since, in mild benighted days,
 
Mix'd the Owl's ivy with the Poet's bays?
As man's mæanders to the vital spring
Roll all their tydes, then back their circles bring;
Or whirligigs, twirl'd round by skilful swain,
Suck the thread in, then yield it out again:
All nonsense thus, of old or modern date,
Shall in thee center, from thee circulate.
 
For this, our Queen unfolds to vision true
Thy mental eye, for thou hast much to view:
Old scenes of glory, times long cast behind
Shall first recall'd, rush forward to thy mind;
Then stretch thy sight o'er all her rising reign,
And let the past and future fire thy brain.
Ascend this hill, whose cloudy point commands
Her boundless empire over seas and lands.
 
See round the Poles where keener spangles shine,
Where spices smoke beneath the burning Line,
(Earth's wide extreams) her sable flag display'd;
And all the nations cover'd in her shade!
 
Far eastward cast thine eye, from whence the Sun
And orient Science at a birth begun.
One god-like Monarch all that pride confounds,
He, whose long wall the wand'ring Tartar bounds.
 
Heav'ns! what a pile? whole ages perish there:
And one bright blaze turns Learning into air.
Thence to the south extend thy gladden'd eyes;
There rival flames with equal glory rise,
 
From shelves to shelves see greedy Vulcan roll,
And lick up all their Physick of the soul.
How little, mark! that portion of the ball,
Where, faint at best, the beams of Science fall;
Soon as they dawn, from Hyperborean skies,
Embody'd dark, what clouds of Vandals rise!
Lo where Mœotis sleeps, and hardly flows
The freezing Tanais thro' a waste of snows,
The North by myriads pours her mighty sons,
Great nurse of Goths, of Alans, and of Huns.
See Alaric's stern port! the martial frame
Of Genseric! and Attila's dread name!
See, the bold Ostrogoths on Latium fall;
See, the fierce Visigoths on Spain and Gaul.
See, where the morning gilds the palmy shore
 
(The soil that arts and infant letters bore)
His conqu'ring tribes th'Arabian prophet draws,
And saving Ignorance enthrones by Laws.
See Christians, Jews, one heavy sabbath keep;
And all the Western world believe and sleep.
 
Lo Rome her self, proud mistress now no more
Of arts, but thund'ring against heathen lore;
Her gray-hair'd Synods damning books unread,
And Bacon trembling for his brazen head;
Padua with sighs beholds her Livy burn,
And ev'n th'Antipodes Vigilius mourn.
See, the Cirque falls, th'unpillar'd Temple nods,
Streets pav'd with Heroes, Tyber choak'd with Gods:
 
Till Peter's keys some christen'd Jove adorn,
And Pan to Moses lends his pagan horn;
See graceless Venus to a Virgin turn'd,
Or Phidias broken, and Apelles burn'd.
Behold yon' Isle, by Palmers, Pilgrims trod,
Men bearded, bald, cowl'd, uncowl'd, shod, unshod,
Peel'd, patch'd, and pyebald, linsey-woolsey brothers,
Grave mummers! sleeveless some, and shirtless others.
That once was Britain—Happy! had she seen
 
 
No fiercer sons, had Easter never been!
In peace, great Goddess, ever be ador'd;
How keen the war, if Dulness draw the sword?
Thus visit not thy own! on this blest age
Oh spread thy Influence, but restrain thy Rage.
And see! my son, the hour is on its way,
That lifts our Goddess to imperial sway;
This fav'rite-Isle, long sever'd from her reign,
Dove like, she gathers to her wings again.
 
Now look thro' Fate! behold the scene she draws!
What aids, what armies, to assert her cause?
See all her progeny, illustrious sight!
Behold, and count them, as they rise to light.
 
As Berecynthia, while her off-spring vye
In homage, to the Mother of the sky,
Surveys around her in the blest abode
A hundred sons, and every son a God:
Not with less glory mighty Dulness crown'd
Shall take thro' Grubstreet her triumphant round,
And her Parnassus glancing o'er at once,
Behold a hundred sons, and each a dunce.
 
Mark first that youth who takes the foremost place,
And thrusts his person full into your face.
 
With all thy father's virtues blest, be born!
And a new Cibber shall the stage adorn.
A second see, by meeker manners known,
And modest as the maid that sips alone;
 
From the strong fate of drams if thou get free,
Another Durfey, Ward! shall sing in thee.
 
Thee shall each Ale-house, thee each Gill-house mourn,
And answ'ring Gin-shops sowrer sighs return.
Lo next two slip-shod Muses traipse along,
In lofty madness, meditating song,
With tresses staring from poetic dreams,
And never wash'd, but in Castalia's streams:
 
Haywood, Centlivre, glories of their race!
 
 
Lo Horneck's fierce, and Room's funereal face;
 
Lo sneering Goode, half malice and half whim,
A fiend in glee, ridiculously grim.
 
 
Jacob, the scourge of Grammar, mark with awe,
 
Nor less revere him, blunderbuss of Law.
 
Lo Bond and Foxton, ev'ry nameless name,
All crowd, who foremost shall be damn'd to fame.
Some strain in rhyme; the Muses, on their racks,
Scream like the winding of ten thousand jacks:
Some free from rhyme or reason, rule or check,
Break Priscian's head, and Pegasus's neck;
Down, down they larum, with impetuous whirl,
The Pindars, and the Miltons of a Curl.
 
Silence, ye Wolves! while Ralph to Cynthia howls.
And makes Night hideous—Answer him ye Owls!
Sense, speech, and measure, living tongues and dead,
 
Let all give way—and Morris may be read.
 
 
Flow Welsted, flow! like thine inspirer Beer,
Tho' stale, not ripe; tho' thin, yet never clear;
So sweetly mawkish, and so smoothly dull;
Heady, not strong; and foaming, tho' not full.
 
Ah Dennis! Gildon ah! what ill-starr'd rage
Divides a friendship long confirm'd by age?
Blockheads with reason wicked wits abhor,
But fool with fool is barb'rous civil war.
 
Embrace, embrace my sons! be foes no more!
Nor glad vile Poets with true Critics gore.
 
Behold yon Pair, in strict embraces join'd;
How like in manners, and how like in mind!
 
Fam'd for good nature, Burnet, and for truth:
 
Ducket for pious passion to the youth.
Equal in wit, and equally polite,
Shall this a Pasquin, that a Grumbler write;
Like are their merits, like rewards they share,
That shines a Consul, this Commissioner.
 
“But who is he, in closet close y pent,
“Of sober face, with learned dust besprent?
 
 
Right well mine eyes arede the myster wight,
 
 
On parchment scraps y fed, and Wormius hight.
To future ages may thy dulness last,
As thou preserv'st the dulness of the past!
There, dim in clouds, the poreing Scholiasts mark,
 
Wits, who like owls see only in the dark,
A Lumberhouse of books in ev'ry head,
For ever reading, never to be read!
But, where each Science lifts its modern type,
Hist'ry her Pot, Divinity his Pipe,
While proud Philosophy repines to show
Dishonest sight! his breeches rent below;
 Imbrown'd with native bronze, lo Henley stands,
Tuning his voice, and balancing his hands,
How fluent nonsense trickles from his tongue!
How sweet the periods, neither said nor sung!
Still break the benches, Henley! with thy strain,
While Kennet, Hare, and Gibson preach in vain.
Oh great Restorer of the good old Stage,
Preacher at once, and Zany of thy age!
Oh worthy thou of Ægypt's wise abodes,
A decent priest, where monkeys were the gods!
But fate with butchers plac'd thy priestly stall,
Meek modern faith to murder, hack, and mawl;
And bade thee live, to crown Britannia's praise,
 
In Toland's, Tindal's, and in Woolston's days.
Yet oh my sons! a father's words attend:
(So may the fates preserve the ears you lend)
'Tis yours, a Bacon or a Locke to blame,
A Newton's Genius, or a Milton's flame:
But O! with one, immortal One dispense,
The source of Newton's Light, of Bacon's Sense!
Content, each Emanation of his fires
That beams on earth, each Virtue he inspires,
Each Art he prompts, each Charm he can create,
Whate'er he gives, are giv'n for you to hate.
Persist, by all divine in Man un-aw'd,
 
But learn, ye Dunces! not to scorn your God.
Thus he, for then a ray of Reason stole,
Half thro' the solid darkness of his soul;
But soon the cloud return'd—and thus the Sire:
See now, what Dulness and her sons admire!
See what the charms that smite the simple heart,
Not touch'd by nature, and not reach'd by art.
 
He look'd, and saw a sable Sorc'rer rise,
Swift to whose hand a winged volume flies:
All sudden, Gorgons hiss, and dragons glare,
And ten-horn'd fiends and Giants rush to war.
 
Hell rises, Heav'n descends, and dance on Earth,
Gods, imps, and monsters, music, rage, and mirth,
A fire, a jigg, a battle, and a ball,
Till one wide conflagration swallows all.
Thence a new world to Nature's laws unknown,
Breaks out refulgent, with a heav'n its own.
Another Cynthia her new journey runs,
 
And other planets circle other suns:
The forests dance, the rivers upward rise,
 
Whales sport in woods, and dolphins in the skies;
And last, to give the whole creation grace,
 
Lo! one vast Egg produces human race.
Joy fills his soul, joy innocent of thought:
What pow'r, he cries, what pow'r these wonders wrought?
 
Son! what thou seek'st is in thee. Look, and find
Each monster meets his likeness in thy mind.
Yet would'st thou more? In yonder cloud behold,
Whose sarcenet skirts are edg'd with flamy gold,
A matchless youth! His nod these worlds controuls,
 
Wings the red lightning, and the thunder rolls.
Angel of Dulness, sent to scatter round
 
Her magic charms o'er all unclassic ground:
Yon stars, yon suns, he rears at pleasure higher,
Illumes their light, and sets their flames on fire.
 
Immortal Rich! how calm he sits at ease
Mid snows of paper, and fierce hail of pease;
And proud his mistress' orders to perform,
Rides in the whirlwind, and directs the storm.
But lo! to dark encounter in mid air
 
New wizards rise: here Booth, and Cibber there:
Booth in his cloudy tabernacle shrin'd,
On grinning dragons Cibber mounts the wind:
Dire is the conflict, dismal is the din,
Here shouts all Drury, there all Lincolns-Inn;
Contending Theatres our empire raise,
Alike their labours, and alike their praise.
And are these wonders, Son, to thee unknown?
Unknown to thee? These wonders are thy own.
For works like these let deathless Journals tell,
 
 
“None but thy self can be thy parallel.
These, Fate reserv'd to grace thy reign divine,
Foreseen by me, but ah! with-held from mine.
In Lud's old walls tho' long I rul'd renown'd,
Far, as loud Bow's stupendous bells resound;
Tho' my own Aldermen conferr'd my bays,
To me committing their eternal praise,
Their full-fed Heroes, their pacific May'rs,
 
Their annual trophies, and their monthly wars:
 
Tho' long my Party built on me their hopes,
For writing pamphlets, and for roasting Popes;
 
(Diff'rent our parties, but with equal grace
The Goddess smiles on Whig and Tory race,
'Tis the same rope at several ends they twist,
 
To Dulness, Ridpath is as dear as Mist.)
Yet lo! in me what authors have to brag on!
Reduc'd at last to hiss in my own dragon.
Avert it, heav'n! that thou or Cibber e'er
Should wag two serpent-tails in Smithfield fair.
Like the vile straw that's blown about the streets,
The needy Poet sticks to all he meets,
Coach'd, carted, trod upon, now loose, now fast,
And carry'd off in some Dog's tail at last.
Happier thy fortunes! like a rolling stone,
Thy giddy dulness still shall lumber on,
Safe in its heaviness can never stray,
And licks up every blockhead in the way.
 
Thy dragons Magistrates and Peers shall taste,
And from each show rise duller than the last;
Till rais'd from Booths to Theatre, to Court,
Her seat imperial, Dulness shall transport.
Already Opera prepares the way,
The sure fore-runner of her gentle sway.
 
To aid her cause, if heav'n thou can'st not bend,
Hell thou shalt move; for Faustus is thy friend:
 
Pluto with Cato thou for her shalt join,
And link the Mourning-Bride to Proserpine.
Grubstreet! thy fall should men and Gods conspire,
 
Thy stage shall stand, ensure it but from fire,
 
Another Æschylus appears! prepare
For new abortions, all ye pregnant fair!
In flames, like Semeles, be brought to bed,
While opening Hell spouts wild-fire at your head.
 
Now Bavius take the poppy from thy brow,
And place it here! here all ye Heroes bow!
 
 
This, this is he, foretold by ancient rhymes:
Th'Augustus, born to bring Saturnian times:
Beneath his reign, shall Eusden wear the bays,
Cibber preside, Lord-Chancellor of Plays.
 
Benson sole judge of architecture sit,
 
And Ambrose Philips be preferr'd for wit!
 
While naked mourns the Dormitory wall,
 
And Jones and Boyle's united labours fall,
While Wren with sorrow to the grave descends,
 
Gay dies unpension'd with a hundred friends,
 
Hibernian politicks, O Swift, thy fate,
 
And Pope's whole years to comment and translate.
 
Proceed great days! till learning fly the shore,
Till birch shall blush with noble blood no more,
Till Thames see Eton's sons for ever play,
Till Westminster's whole year be holiday;
Till Isis' elders reel, their pupils sport;
And Alma Mater lye dissolv'd in port!
Signs following signs lead on the mighty year;
See! the dull star roll round and re-appear.
 
She comes! the cloud-compelling Pow'r, behold!
With Night primæval, and with Chaos old.
Lo! the great Anarch's ancient reign restor'd;
Light dies before her uncreating word.
As one by one, at dread Medæa's strain,
The sick'ning stars fade off th'æthereal plain;
 
As Argus' eyes, by Hermes wand opprest,
Clos'd one by one to everlasting rest;
Thus at her felt approach, and secret might,
Art after art goes out, and all is night.
 
See sculking Truth in her old cavern lye,
Secur'd by mountains of heap'd casuistry:
Philosophy, that touch'd the heav'ns before,
Shrinks to her hidden cause, and is no more:
See Physic beg the Stagyrite's defence!
See Metaphysic call for aid on sense!
See mystery to Mathematics fly;
In vain! they gaze, turn giddy, rave, and die.
Thy hand, great Dulness! lets the curtain fall,
And universal darkness buries all.
Enough! enough! the raptur'd monarch cries;
 
And thro' the Ivory gate the vision flies.



Thus Hector, great in Arms, contends in vain
To fix the Fortune of the fatal Plain,
Nor Troy cou'd conquer, nor the Greeks wou'd yield,
'Till bold Sarpedon rush'd into the Field;
For Mighty Jove inspir'd with Martial Flame
His God-like Son, and urg'd him on to Fame.
In Arms he shines, conspicuous from afar,
And bears aloft his ample Shield in Air,
Within whose Orb the thick Bull-hides were roll'd,
Pondrous with Brass, and bound with ductile Gold;
And while two pointed Jav'lins arm his Hands,
Majestick moves along, and leads his Lycian Bands.
So prest with Hunger, from the Mountain's Brow,
Descends a Lion on the Flocks below;
So stalks the Lordly Savage o'er the Plain,
In sullen Majesty, and stern Disdain:
In vain loud Mastives bay him from afar,
And Shepherds gaul him with an Iron War;
Regardless, furious, he pursues his way;
He foams, he roars, he rends the panting Prey.
Resolv'd alike, Divine Sarpedon glows
With gen'rous Rage, that drives him on the Foes.
He views the Tow'rs, and meditates their Fall;
To sure Destruction dooms the Grecian Wall;
Then casting on his Friend an ardent Look,
Fir'd with the Thirst of Glory, thus he spoke.
Why boast we, Glaucus, our extended Reign,
Where Xanthus' Streams enrich the Lycian Plain?
Our num'rous Herds that range each fruitful Field,
And Hills where Vines their Purple Harvest yield?
Our foaming Bowls with gen'rous Nectar crown'd,
Our Feasts enhanc'd with Musick's sprightly Sound?
Why on those Shores are we with Joy survey'd,
Admir'd as Heroes, and as Gods obey'd?
Unless great Acts superior Merit prove,
And Vindicate the bounteous Pow'rs above:
'Tis ours, the Dignity They give, to grace;
The first in Valour, as the first in Place:
That while with wondring Eyes our Martial Bands
Behold our Deeds transcending our Commands,
Such, they may cry, deserve the Sov'reign State,
Whom those that Envy dare not Imitate!
Cou'd all our Care elude the greedy Grave,
Which claims no less the Fearful than the Brave,
For Lust of Fame I shou'd not vainly dare
In fighting Fields, nor urge thy Soul to War.
But since, alas, ignoble Age must come,
Disease, and Death's inexorable Doom;
The Life which others pay, let Us bestow,
And give to Fame what we to Nature owe;
Brave, tho' we fall; and honour'd, if we live;
Or let us Glory gain, or Glory give!
He said, his Words the list'ning Chief inspire
With equal Warmth, and rouze the Warrior's Fire;
The Troops pursue their Leaders with Delight,
Rush to the Foe, and claim the promis'd Fight.
Menestheus from on high the Storm beheld,
Threat'ning the Fort, and black'ning in the Field;
Around the Walls he gaz'd, to view from far
What Aid appear'd t'avert th'approaching War,
And saw where Teucer with th'Ajaces stood,
Insatiate of the Fight, and prodigal of Blood.
In vain he calls, the Din of Helms and Shields
Rings to the Skies, and ecchoes thro' the Fields,
The Gates resound, the Brazen Hinges fly,
While each is bent to conquer or to die.
Then thus to Thoos;—Hence with speed (he said)
And urge the bold Ajaces to our Aid;
Their Strength united best may help to bear
The bloody Labours of the doubtful War:
Hither the Lycian Princes bend their Course,
The best and bravest of the Trojan Force.
But if too fiercely, there, the Foes contend,
Let Telamon at least our Tow'rs defend,
And Teucer haste, with his unerring Bow,
To share the Danger, and repel the Foe.
Swift as the Word, the Herald speeds along
The lofty Ramparts, through the Warlike Throng,
And finds the Heroes, bath'd in Sweat and Gore,
Oppos'd in Combate on the dusty Shore.
Strait to the Fort great Ajax turn'd his Care,
And thus bespoke his Brothers of the War:
Now valiant Lycomede, exert your Might,
And brave Oïleus, prove your Force in Fight:
To you I trust the Fortune of the Field,
'Till by this Arm the Foe shall be repell'd;
That done, expect me to compleat the Day:
Then, with his Sev'nfold Shield, he strode away.
With equal Steps bold Teucer prest the Shore,
Whose fatal Bow the strong Pandion bore.
High on the Walls appear'd the Lycian Pow'rs,
Like some black Tempest gath'ring round the Tow'rs:
The Greeks oppress'd, their utmost Force unite,
Prepar'd to labour in th'unequal Fight;
The War begins; mix'd Shouts and Groans arise;
Tumultuous Clamour mounts, and thickens in the Skies.
Fierce Ajax first th'advancing Host invades,
And sends the brave Epicles to the Shades,
Sarpedon's Friend; Across the Warrior's Way,
Rent from the Walls, a Rocky Fragment lay;
In modern Ages not the strongest Swain
Cou'd heave th'unwieldy Burthen from the Plain:
He poiz'd, and swung it round; then tost on high,
It flew with Force, and labour'd up the Sky;
Full on the Lycian's Helmet thundring down,
The pondrous Ruin crush'd his batter'd Crown.
As skilful Divers from some Airy Steep
Headlong descend, and shoot into the Deep,
So falls Epicles; then in Groans expires,
And murm'ring from the Corps th'unwilling Soul retires.
While to the Ramparts daring Glaucus drew,
From Teucer's Hand a winged Arrow flew,
The bearded Shaft the destin'd Passage found,
And on his naked Arm inflicts a Wound.
The Chief who fear'd some Foe's insulting Boast
Might stop the Progress of his warlike Host,
Conceal'd the Wound, and leaping from his Height,
Retir'd reluctant from th'unfinish'd Fight.
Divine Sarpedon with Regret beheld
Disabl'd Glaucus slowly quit the Field;
His beating Breast with gen'rous Ardour glows,
He springs to Fight, and flies upon the Foes.
Alcmaon first was doom'd his Force to feel,
Deep in his Breast he plung'd the pointed Steel,
Then from the yawning Wound with Fury tore
The Spear, pursu'd by gushing Streams of Gore;
Down sinks the Warrior, with a thundring Sound,
His Brazen Armour rings against the Ground.
Swift to the Battlement the Victor flies,
Tugs with full Force, and ev'ry Nerve applies;
It shakes; the pondrous Stones disjoynted yield;
The rowling Ruins smoak along the Field.
A mighty Breach appears, the Walls lye bare,
And like a Deluge rushes in the War.
At once bold Teucer draws the twanging Bow,
And Ajax sends his Jav'lin at the Foe;
Fix'd in his Belt the feather'd Weapon stood,
And thro' his Buckler drove the trembling Wood;
But Jove was present in the dire Debate,
To shield his Off-spring, and avert his Fate.
The Prince gave back; not meditating Flight,
But urging Vengeance and severer Fight;
Then rais'd with Hope, and fir'd with Glory's Charms,
His fainting Squadrons to new Fury warms.
O where, ye Lycians, is the Strength you boast,
Your former Fame, and ancient Virtue lost?
The Breach lyes open, but your Chief in vain
Attempts alone the guarded Pass to gain:
Unite, and soon that Hostile Fleet shall fall,
The Force of pow'rful Union conquers All.
This just Rebuke inflam'd the Lycian Crew,
They join, they thicken, and th'Assault renew;
Unmov'd, th'embody'd Greeks their Fury dare,
And fix'd support the Weight of all the War:
Nor cou'd the Greeks repell the Lycian Pow'rs,
Nor the bold Lycians force the Grecian Tow'rs.
As on the Confines of adjoyning Grounds,
Two stubborn Swains with Blows dispute their Bounds;
They tugg, they sweat; but neither gain, nor yield,
One Foot, one Inch, of the contended Field:
Thus obstinate to Death, they fight, they fall;
Nor these can keep, nor those can win the Wall:
Their Manly Breasts are pierc'd with many a Wound,
Loud Strokes are heard, and ratling Arms resound,
The copious Slaughter covers all the Shore,
And the high Ramparts drop with Human Gore.
As when two Scales are charg'd with doubtful Loads,
From side to side the trembling Balance nods,
'Till poiz'd aloft, the resting Beam suspends
Each equal Weight, nor this, nor that descends.
So Conquest loth for either to declare,
Levels her Wings, and hov'ring hangs in Air.
'Till Hector came, to whose Superior Might
Jove ow'd the Glory of the destin'd Fight.
Fierce as a Whirlwind, up the Walls he flies,
And fires his Host with loud repeated Cries:
Advance ye Trojans, lend your valiant Hands,
Haste to the Fleet, and toss the blazing Brands!
They hear, they run, and gath'ring at his Call,
Raise scaling Engines, and ascend the Wall:
Around the Works a Wood of glitt'ring Spears
Shoots up, and All the rising Host appears.
A pondrous Stone bold Hector heav'd to throw,
Pointed above, and rough and gross below:
Not two strong Men th'enormous Weight cou'd raise,
Such Men as live in these degen'rate Days.
Yet this, as easie as a Swain wou'd bear
The snowy Fleece; he tost, and shook in Air:
For Jove upheld, and lighten'd of its Load
Th'unwieldy Rock, the Labour of a God.
Thus arm'd, before the folded Gates he came,
Of massy Substance and stupendous Frame,
With Iron Bars and brazen Hinges strong,
On lofty Beams of solid Timber hung.
Then thundring thro' the Planks, with forceful Sway,
Drives the sharp Rock; the solid Beams give way,
The Folds are shatter'd, from the crackling Door
Leap the resounding Bars, the flying Hinges roar.
Now rushing in the furious Chief appears,
Gloomy as Night, and shakes two shining Spears;
A dreadful Gleam from his bright Armour came,
And from his Eye-balls flash'd the living Flame:
He moves a God, resistless in his Course,
And seems a Match for more than Mortal Force.
Then pouring after, thro' the gaping Space
A Tide of Trojans flows, and fills the Place;
The Greeks behold, they tremble, and they fly,
The Shore is heap'd with Death, and Tumult rends the Sky.
When now the Chief his valiant Friends beheld
Grov'ling in Dust, and gasping on the Field,
With this Reproach his flying Host he warms,
Oh Stain to Honour! oh Disgrace of Arms!
Forsake, inglorious, the contended Plain;
This Hand unaided shall the War sustain:
The Task be mine the Hero's Strength to try,
Who mows whole Troops, and makes whole Armies fly.
He said, and leap'd from off his lofty Car;
Patroclus lights, and sternly waits the War.
As when two Vulturs on the Mountain's Height
Stoop with their sounding Pinions to the Fight;
They cuff, they tear, they raise a screaming Cry;
The Desart ecchoes, and the Rocks reply:
The Warriors thus oppos'd in Arms engage,
With equal Valour, and with equal Rage.
Jove view'd the Combate, whose Event foreseen,
He thus bespoke his Sister and his Queen.
The Hour draws on; the Destinies ordain,
My God-like Son shall press the Phrygian Plain:
Already on the Verge of Death he stands,
His Life is ow'd to fierce Patroclus' Hands.
What Passions in a Parent's Breast debate!
Say, shall I snatch him from Impending Fate;
And send him safe to Lycia, distant far
From all the Dangers and the Toils of War;
Or to his Doom my bravest Off-spring yield,
And fatten, with Celestial Blood, the Field?
Then thus the Goddess with the radiant Eyes:
What Words are these, O Sov'reign of the Skies?
Short is the Date prescrib'd to Mortal Man;
Shall Jove, for one, extend the narrow Span,
Whose Bounds were fix'd before his Race began?
How many Sons of Gods, foredoom'd to Death,
Before proud Ilion must resign their Breath!
Were thine exempt, Debate wou'd rise above,
And murm'ring Pow'rs condemn their partial Jove.
Give the bold Chief a glorious Fate in Fight;
And when th'ascending Soul has wing'd her Flight,
Let Sleep and Death convey, by thy Command,
The breathless Body to his Native Land.
His Friends and People, to his future Praise,
A Marble Tomb and Pyramid shall raise,
And lasting Honours to his Ashes give;
His Fame ('tis all the Dead can have!) shall live.
She said; the Cloud-Compeller overcome,
Assents to Fate, and ratifies the Doom.
Then, touch'd with Grief, the weeping Heav'ns distill'd
A Show'r of Blood o'er all the fatal Field.
The God, his Eyes averting from the Plain,
Laments his Son, predestin'd to be slain,
Far from the Lycian Shores, his happy Native Reign.
Now met in Arms the Combatants appear,
Each heav'd the Shield, and pois'd the lifted Spear:
From strong Patroclus' Hand the Jav'lin fled,
And pass'd the Groin of valiant Thrasymed,
The Nerves unbrac'd no more his Bulk sustain,
He falls, and falling, bites the bloody Plain.
Two sounding Darts the Lycian Leader threw,
The first aloof with erring Fury flew,
The next more fatal pierc'd Achilles' Steed,
The gen'rous Pedasus, of Theban Breed;
Fix'd in the Shoulder's Joint, he reel'd around;
Rowl'd in the bloody Dust, and paw'd the slipp'ry Ground.
His sudden Fall the entangled Harness broke;
Each Axle groan'd; the bounding Chariot shook;
When bold Automedon, to disengage
The starting Coursers, and restrain their Rage,
Divides the Traces with his Sword, and freed
Th'incumber'd Chariot from the dying Steed:
The rest move on, obedient to the Rein;
The Car rowls slowly o'er the dusty Plain.
The towring Chiefs to fiercer Fight advance,
And first Sarpedon tost his weighty Lance,
Which o'er the Warrior's Shoulder took its Course,
And spent, in empty Air, its dying Force.
Not so Patroclus never-erring Dart;
Aim'd at his Breast, it pierc'd the mortal Part
Where the strong Fibres bind the solid Heart.
Then as the stately Pine, or Poplar tall,
Hewn for the Mast of some great Admiral,
Nods, groans, and reels, 'till with a crackling Sound
It sinks, and spreads its Honours on the Ground;
Thus fell the King; and laid on Earth Supine,
Before his Chariot stretch'd his Form divine:
He grasp'd the Dust, distain'd with streaming Gore,
And, pale in Death, lay groaning on the Shore.
So lyes a Bull beneath the Lion's Paws,
While the grim Savage grinds with foamy Jaws
The trembling Limbs, and sucks the smoking Blood;
Deep Groans and hollow Roars rebellow thro' the Wood.
Then to the Leader of the Lycian Band,
The dying Chief address'd his last Command.
Glaucus, be bold, Thy Task be first to dare
The glorious Dangers of destructive War,
To lead my Troops, to combate at their Head,
Incite the Living, and supply the Dead.
Tell 'em, I charg'd them with my latest Breath,
Not unreveng'd to bear Sarpedon's Death.
What Grief, what Shame must Glaucus undergo,
If these spoil'd Arms adorn a Grecian Foe?
Then as a Friend, and as a Warrior, fight;
Defend my Corps, and conquer in my Right;
That taught by great Examples, All may try
Like thee to vanquish, or like me to die.
He ceas'd; the Fates supprest his lab'ring Breath,
And his Eyes darken'd with the Shades of Death:
Th'insulting Victor with Disdain bestrode
The prostrate Prince, and on his Bosom trod;
Then drew the Weapon from his panting Heart,
The reeking Fibres clinging to the Dart;
From the wide Wound gush'd out a Stream of Blood,
And the Soul issu'd in the Purple Flood.
Then thus to Phœbus, in the Realms above,
Spoke from his Throne the Cloud-compelling Jove:
Descend my Phœbus, on the Phrygian Plain,
And from the Fight convey Sarpedon slain;
Then bathe his Body in the crystal Flood,
With Dust dishonour'd, and deform'd with Blood:
O'er all his Limbs Ambrosial Odours shed,
And with Celestial Robes adorn the mighty Dead.
Those Honours paid, his sacred Corps bequeath
To the soft Arms of silent Sleep and Death;
They to his Friends the mournful Charge shall bear;
His Friends a Tomb and Pyramid shall rear;
These unavailing Rites he may receive,
These, after Death, are All a God can give!
Apollo bows, and from Mount Ida's Height
Swift to the Field precipitates his Flight;
Thence, from the War, the breathless Hero bore,
Veil'd in a Cloud, to silver Simois Shore:
There bath'd his honourable Wounds, and drest
His Manly Members in th'Immortal Vest,
And with Perfumes of sweet Ambrosial Dews,
Restores his Freshness, and his Form renews.
Then Sleep and Death, two Twins of winged Race,
Of matchless Swiftness, but of silent Pace,
Receiv'd Sarpedon, at the God's Command,
And in a Moment reach'd the Lycian Land;
The Corps amidst his weeping Friends they laid,
Where endless Honours wait the Sacred Shade.



Tho' Artimesia talks, by fits,
Of councils, classics, fathers, wits;
    Reads Malbranche, Boyle, and Locke:
Yet in some things methinks she fails,
'Twere well if she would pare her nails,
    And wear a cleaner smock.
Haughty and huge as High-Dutch bride,
Such nastiness, and so much pride
    Are odly join'd by fate:
On her large squab you find her spread,
Like a fat corpse upon a bed,
    That lies and stinks in state.
She wears no colours (sign of grace)
On any part except her face;
    All white and black beside:
Dauntless her look, her gesture proud,
Her voice theatrically loud,
    And masculine her stride.
So have I seen, in black and white
A prating thing, a Magpy hight,
    Majestically stalk;
A stately, worthless animal,
That plies the tongue, and wags the tail,
    All flutter, pride, and talk.



The Fop, whose Pride affects a Patron's name,
Yet absent, wounds an author's honest fame:
That more abusive Fool, who calls me Friend,
Yet wants the honour, injur'd to defend:
Who spreads a Tale, a Libel hands about,
Enjoys the Jest, and copies Scandal out:
Who to the Dean and Silver Bell can swear,
And sees at C&sblank;n&sblank;ons what was never there;
Who tells you all I mean, and all I say;
And, if he lyes not, must at least betray:
—Tis not the sober Satyrist you should dread,
But such a babling Coxcomb in his stead.



Thy forests, Windsor! and thy green retreats,
At once the Monarch's and the Muse's seats,
 
Invite my lays. Be present, sylvan maids!
Unlock your springs, and open all your shades.
Granville commands; your aid O Muses bring!
What Muse for Granville can refuse to sing?
The groves of Eden, vanish'd now so long,
Live in description, and look green in song:
These, were my breast inspir'd with equal flame,
Like them in beauty, should be like in fame.
Here hills and vales, the woodland and the plain,
Here earth and water, seem to strive again;
Not Chaos like together crush'd and bruis'd,
But as the world, harmoniously confus'd:
Where order in variety we see,
And where, tho' all things differ, all agree.
Here waving groves a checquer'd scene display,
And part admit, and part exclude the day;
As some coy nymph her lover's warm address
Nor quite indulges, nor can quite repress.
There, interspers'd in lawns and opening glades,
Thin trees arise that shun each other's shades.
Here in full light the russet plains extend;
There wrapt in clouds the blueish hills ascend.
 
Ev'n the wild heath displays her purple dyes,
And 'midst the desart fruitful fields arise,
That crown'd with tufted trees and springing corn,
Like verdant isles the sable waste adorn.
Let India boast her plants, nor envy we
The weeping amber or the balmy tree,
While by our oaks the precious loads are born,
And realms commanded which those trees adorn.
Not proud Olympus yields a nobler sight,
Tho' Gods assembled grace his tow'ring height,
Than what more humble mountains offer here,
Where, in their blessings, all those Gods appear.
See Pan with flocks, with fruits Pomona crown'd,
Here blushing Flora paints th'enamel'd ground,
Here Ceres' gifts in waving prospect stand,
And nodding tempt the joyful reaper's hand;
Rich Industry sits smiling on the plains,
And peace and plenty tell, a Stuart reigns.
Not thus the land appear'd in ages past,
A dreary desart and a gloomy waste,
To savage beasts and 
 savage laws a prey,
And kings more furious and severe than they;
Who claim'd the skies, dispeopled air and floods,
The lonely lords of empty wilds and woods:
Cities laid waste, they storm'd the dens and caves,
(For wiser brutes were backward to be slaves.)
What could be free, when lawless beasts obey'd,
And ev'n the elements a Tyrant sway'd?
In vain kind seasons swell'd the teeming grain,
Soft show'rs distill'd, and suns grew warm in vain;
The swain with tears his frustrate labour yields,
And famish'd dies amidst his ripen'd fields.
 
What wonder then, a beast or subject slain
Were equal crimes in a despotick reign?
Both doom'd alike, for sportive Tyrants bled,
But that the subject starv'd, the beast was fed.
Proud Nimrod first the bloody chace began,
A mighty hunter, and his prey was man:
Our haughty Norman boasts that barb'rous name,
And makes his trembling slaves the royal game.
The 
 fields are ravish'd from th'industrious swains,
From men their cities, and from Gods their fanes:
The levell'd towns with weeds lie cover'd o'er;
The hollow winds thro' naked temples roar;
Round broken columns clasping ivy twin'd;
O'er heaps of ruin stalk'd the stately hind;
The fox obscene to gaping tombs retires,
 
And savage howlings fill the sacred quires.
Aw'd by his Nobles, by his Commons curst,
Th'Oppressor rul'd tyrannic where he durst,
Stretch'd o'er the Poor and Church his iron rod,
And serv'd alike his Vassals and his God.
Whom ev'n the Saxon spar'd, and bloody Dane,
The wanton victims of his sport remain.
But see, the man who spacious regions gave
A waste for beasts, himself deny'd a grave!
Stretch'd on the lawn, his 
 second hope survey,
At once the chaser, and at once the prey:
Lo Rufus, tugging at the deadly dart,
Bleeds in the forest, like a wounded hart.
Succeeding Monarchs heard the subjects cries,
Nor saw displeas'd the peaceful cottage rise.
Then gath'ring flocks on unknown mountains fed,
O'er sandy wilds were yellow harvests spread,
The forests wonder'd at th'unusual grain,
And secret transport touch'd the conscious swain.
 
Fair Liberty, Britannia's Goddess, rears
Her chearful head, and leads the golden years.
Ye vig'rous swains! while youth ferments your blood,
And purer spirits swell the sprightly flood,
Now range the hills, the thickest woods beset,
Wind the shrill horn, or spread the waving net.
 
When milder autumn summer's heat succeeds,
And in the new-shorn field the partridge feeds,
Before his lord the ready spaniel bounds,
Panting with hope, he tries the furrow'd grounds;
But when the tainted gales the game betray,
Couch'd close he lies, and meditates the prey:
Secure they trust th'unfaithful field, beset,
Till hov'ring o'er 'em sweeps the swelling net.
Thus (if small things we may with great compare)
When Albion sends her eager sons to war,
Some thoughtless Town, with ease and plenty blest,
Near, and more near, the closing lines invest;
Sudden they seize th'amaz'd, defenceless prize,
And high in air Britannia's standard flies.
See! from the brake the whirring pheasant springs,
And mounts exulting on triumphant wings:
Short is his joy; he feels the fiery wound,
Flutters in blood, and panting beats the ground.
Ah! what avail his glossy, varying dyes,
His purple crest, and scarlet-circled eyes,
The vivid green his shining plumes unfold,
His painted wings, and breast that flames with gold?
 
Nor yet, when moist Arcturus clouds the sky,
The woods and fields their pleasing toils deny.
To plains with well-breath'd beagles we repair,
And trace the mazes of the circling hare:
(Beasts, urg'd by us, their fellow-beasts pursue,
And learn of man each other to undo.)
With slaught'ring guns th'unweary'd fowler roves,
When frosts have whiten'd all the naked groves;
Where doves in flocks the leafless trees o'ershade,
And lonely woodcocks haunt the wat'ry glade.
 
He lifts the tube, and levels with his eye;
Strait a short thunder breaks the frozen sky:
Oft', as in airy rings they skim the heath,
The clam'rous plovers feel the leaden death:
Oft', as the mounting larks their notes prepare,
They fall, and leave their little lives in air.
In genial spring, beneath the quiv'ring shade,
Where cooling vapours breathe along the mead,
The patient fisher takes his silent stand,
Intent, his angle trembling in his hand;
With looks unmov'd, he hopes the scaly breed,
And eyes the dancing cork, and bending reed.
Our plenteous streams a various race supply,
The bright-ey'd perch with fins of Tyrian dye,
The silver eel, in shining volumes roll'd,
The yellow carp, in scales bedrop'd with gold,
Swift trouts, diversify'd with crimson stains,
And pykes, the tyrants of the watry plains.
 
Now Cancer glows with Phœbus' fiery car;
The youth rush eager to the sylvan war,
Swarm o'er the lawns, the forest walks surround,
Rouze the fleet hart, and chear the opening hound.
Th'impatient courser pants in ev'ry vein,
And pawing, seems to beat the distant plain;
Hills, vales, and floods appear already cross'd,
And e'er he starts, a thousand steps are lost.
See! the bold youth strain up the threat'ning steep,
Rush thro' the thickets, down the valleys sweep,
Hang o'er their coursers heads with eager speed,
And earth rolls back beneath the flying steed.
Let old Arcadia boast her ample plain,
Th'immortal huntress, and her virgin-train;
Nor envy, Windsor! since thy shades have seen
As bright a Goddess, and as chaste a Queen;
Whose care, like hers, protects the sylvan reign,
The Earth's fair light, and Empress of the main.
 
Here, as old bards have sung, Diana stray'd,
Bath'd in the springs, or sought the cooling shade;
Here arm'd with silver bows, in early dawn,
Her buskin'd Virgins trac'd the dewy lawn.
Above the rest a rural nymph was fam'd,
Thy offspring, Thames! the fair Lodona nam'd;
(Lodona's fate, in long oblivion cast,
The Muse shall sing, and what she sings shall last.)
Scarce could the Goddess from her nymph be known,
But by the crescent and the golden zone.
She scorn'd the praise of beauty, and the care,
A belt her waist, a fillet binds her hair,
A painted quiver on her shoulder sounds,
And with her dart the flying deer she wounds.
It chanc'd, as eager of the chace, the maid
Beyond the forest's verdant limits stray'd,
Pan saw and lov'd, and burning with desire
Pursu'd her flight, her flight increas'd his fire.
Not half so swift the trembling doves can fly,
When the fierce eagle cleaves the liquid sky;
Not half so swiftly the fierce eagle moves,
When thro' the clouds he drives the trembling doves;
As from the God she flew with furious pace,
Or as the God, more furious, urg'd the chace.
Now fainting, sinking, pale, the nymph appears;
Now close behind, his sounding steps she hears;
And now his shadow reach'd her as she run,
His shadow lengthen'd by the setting sun;
And now his shorter breath, with sultry air,
Pants on her neck, and fans her parting hair.
In vain on father Thames she call'd for aid,
Nor could Diana help her injur'd maid.
Faint, breathless, thus she pray'd, nor pray'd in vain;
“Ah Cynthia! ah—tho' banish'd from thy train,
“Let me, O let me, to the shades repair,
“My native shades—there weep, and murmur there.
She said, and melting as in tears she lay,
In a soft, silver stream dissolv'd away.
The silver stream her virgin coldness keeps,
For ever murmurs, and for ever weeps;
Still bears the 
 name the hapless virgin bore,
And bathes the forest where she rang'd before.
In her chaste current oft' the Goddess laves,
And with celestial tears augments the waves.
Oft' in her glass the musing shepherd spies
The headlong mountains and the downward skies,
The watry landskip of the pendant woods,
And absent trees that tremble in the floods;
In the clear azure gleam the flocks are seen,
And floating forests paint the waves with green.
Thro' the fair scene rowl slow the ling'ring streams,
Then foaming pour along, and rush into the Thames.
Thou too, great father of the British floods!
With joyful pride survey'st our lofty woods;
Where tow'ring oaks their spreading honours rear,
And future navies on thy shores appear.
Not Neptune's self from all his streams receives
A wealthier tribute, than to thine he gives.
No seas so rich, so gay no banks appear,
No lake so gentle, and no spring so clear.
Not fabled Po more swells the poet's lays,
While thro' the skies his shining current strays,
Than thine, which visits Windsor's fam'd abodes,
To grace the mansion of our earthly Gods:
Nor all his stars a brighter lustre show,
Than the fair nymphs that grace thy side below:
Here Jove himself, subdu'd by beauty still,
Might change Olympus for a nobler hill.
 
Happy the man whom this bright Court approves,
His Sov'reign favours, and his Country loves:
Happy next him, who to these shades retires,
Whom Nature charms, and whom the Muse inspires;
Whom humbler joys of home-felt quiet please,
Successive study, exercise, and ease.
He gathers health from herbs the forest yields,
And of their fragrant physic spoils the fields:
With chymic art exalts the min'ral pow'rs,
And draws the aromatic souls of flow'rs:
Now marks the course of rolling orbs on high;
O'er figur'd worlds now travels with his eye:
Of ancient writ unlocks the learned store,
Consults the dead, and lives past ages o'er:
Or wand'ring thoughtful in the silent wood,
Attends the duties of the wise and good,
T'observe a mean, be to himself a friend,
To follow nature, and regard his end;
Or looks on heav'n with more than mortal eyes,
Bids his free soul expatiate in the skies,
Amid her kindred stars familiar roam,
Survey the region, and confess her home!
Such was the life great Scipio once admir'd,
Thus Atticus, and Trumbal thus retir'd.
Ye sacred Nine! that all my soul possess,
Whose raptures fire me, and whose visions bless,
Bear me, oh bear me to sequester'd scenes,
The bow'ry mazes, and surrounding greens;
To Thames's banks which fragrant breezes fill,
Or where ye Muses sport on Cooper's hill.
(On Cooper's hill eternal wreaths shall grow,
While lasts the mountain, or while Thames shall flow)
I seem thro' consecrated walks to rove,
I hear soft music die along the grove;
Led by the sound, I roam from shade to shade,
By god-like Poets venerable made:
Here his first lays majestic Denham sung;
There the last numbers flow'd from 
 Cowley's tongue.
O early lost! what tears the river shed,
When the sad pomp along his banks was led?
 
His drooping swans on ev'ry note expire,
And on his willows hung each Muse's lyre.
Since fate relentless stop'd their heav'nly voice,
No more the forests ring, or groves rejoice;
Who now shall charm the shades, where Cowley strung
His living harp, and lofty Denham sung?
But hark! the groves rejoice, the forest rings!
Are these reviv'd? or is it Granville sings?
'Tis yours, my Lord, to bless our soft retreats,
And call the Muses to their ancient seats;
To paint anew the flow'ry sylvan scenes,
To crown the forests with immortal greens,
Make Windsor-hills in lofty numbers rise,
And lift her turrets nearer to the skies;
To sing those honours you deserve to wear,
And add new lustre to her silver star. 


Here noble 
 Surrey felt the sacred rage,
Surrey, the Granville of a former age:
Matchless his pen, victorious was his lance,
Bold in the lists, and graceful in the dance:
In the same shades the Cupids tun'd his lyre,
To the same notes, of love, and soft desire:
Fair Geraldine, bright object of his vow,
Then fill'd the groves, as heav'nly Myra now.
Oh would'st thou sing what Heroes Windsor bore,
What Kings first breath'd upon her winding shore,
Or raise old warriours, whose ador'd remains
In weeping vaults her hallow'd earth contains!
With 
 Edward's acts adorn the shining page,
Stretch his long triumphs down thro' ev'ry age,
Draw Monarchs chain'd, and Cressi's glorious field,
The lillies blazing on the regal shield:
Then, from her roofs when Verrio's colours fall,
And leave inanimate the naked wall,
Still in thy song should vanquish'd France appear,
And bleed for ever under Britain's spear.
Let softer strains ill-fated 
 Henry mourn,
And palms eternal flourish round his urn.
Here o'er the martyr-King the marble weeps,
And fast beside him, once-fear'd 
 Edward sleeps:
Whom not th'extended Albion could contain,
From old Belerium to the northern main,
The grave unites; where ev'n the Great find rest,
And blended lie th'oppressor and th'opprest!
Make sacred Charles's tomb for ever known,
(Obscure the place, and un-inscrib'd the stone)
Oh fact accurst! what tears has Albion shed,
Heav'ns, what new wounds! and how her old have bled?
She saw her sons with purple deaths expire,
Her sacred domes involv'd in rolling fire,
A dreadful series of intestine wars,
Inglorious triumphs, and dishonest scars.
At length great Anna said—“Let Discord cease!”
She said, the World obey'd, and all was Peace!
In that blest moment, from his oozy bed
 
Old father Thames advanc'd his rev'rend head.
His tresses drop'd with dews, and o'er the stream
His shining horns diffus'd a golden gleam:
Grav'd on his urn, appear'd the Moon that guides
His swelling waters, and alternate tydes;
The figur'd streams in waves of silver roll'd,
And on their banks Augusta rose in gold.
Around his throne the sea-born brothers stood,
Who swell with tributary urns his flood:
First the fam'd authors of his ancient name,
The winding Isis and the fruitful Tame:
The Kennet swift, for silver eels renown'd;
The Loddon slow, with verdant alders crown'd;
Cole, whose clear streams his flow'ry islands lave;
And chalky Wey, that rolls a milky wave:
The blue, transparent Vandalis appears;
The gulphy Lee his sedgy tresses rears;
And sullen Mole, that hides his diving flood;
And silent Darent, stain'd with Danish blood.
High in the midst, upon his urn reclin'd,
(His sea-green mantle waving with the wind)
The God appear'd: he turn'd his azure eyes
Where Windsor-domes and pompous turrets rise;
Then bow'd and spoke; the winds forget to roar,
And the hush'd waves glide softly to the shore.
Hail, sacred Peace! hail long-expected days,
That Thames's glory to the stars shall raise!
Tho' Tyber's streams immortal Rome behold,
Tho' foaming Hermus swells with tydes of gold,
From heav'n itself tho' sev'n-fold Nilus flows,
And harvests on a hundred realms bestows;
These now no more shall be the Muse's themes,
Lost in my fame, as in the sea their streams.
Let Volga's banks with iron squadrons shine,
And groves of lances glitter on the Rhine,
Let barb'rous Ganges arm a servile train;
Be mine the blessings of a peaceful reign.
No more my sons shall dye with British blood
Red Iber's sands, or Ister's foaming flood;
Safe on my shore each unmolested swain
Shall tend the flocks, or reap the bearded grain;
The shady empire shall retain no trace
Of war or blood, but in the sylvan chace;
The trumpet sleep, while chearful horns are blown,
And arms employ'd on birds and beasts alone.
Behold! th'ascending Villa's on my side,
Project long shadows o'er the crystal tyde.
Behold! Augusta's glitt'ring spires increase,
And temples rise, the beauteous works of Peace.
I see, I see where two fair cities bend
Their ample bow, a new White-ball ascend!
There mighty nations shall enquire their doom,
The world's great Oracle in times to come;
There Kings shall sue, and suppliant States be seen
Once more to bend before a British Queen.
 
Thy trees, fair Windsor! now shall leave their woods,
And half thy forests rush into my floods,
Bear Britain's thunder, and her Cross display,
To the bright regions of the rising day;
Tempt icy seas, where scarce the waters roll,
Where clearer flames glow round the frozen Pole;
Or under southern skies exalt their sails,
Led by new stars, and borne by spicy gales!
For me the balm shall bleed, and amber flow,
The coral redden, and the ruby glow,
The pearly shell its lucid globe infold,
And Phœbus warm the ripening ore to gold.
The time shall come, when free as seas or wind
Unbounded Thames shall flow for all mankind,
Whole nations enter with each swelling tyde,
And seas but join the regions they divide;
Earth's distant ends our glory shall behold,
And the new world launch forth to seek the old.
Then ships of uncouth form shall stem the tyde,
And feather'd people croud my wealthy side,
And naked youths and painted chiefs admire
Our speech, our colour, and our strange attire!
Oh stretch thy reign, fair Peace! from shore to shore,
'Till Conquest cease, and slav'ry be no more;
'Till the freed Indians in their native groves
Reap their own fruits, and woo their sable loves,
Peru once more a race of Kings behold,
And other Mexico's be roof'd with gold.
Exil'd by thee from earth to deepest hell,
In brazen bonds shall barb'rous Discord dwell:
Gigantic Pride, pale Terror, gloomy Care,
And mad Ambition, shall attend her there:
There purple Vengeance bath'd in gore retires,
Her weapons blunted, and extinct her fires:
There hateful Envy her own snakes shall feel,
And Persecution mourn her broken wheel:
There Faction roar, Rebellion bite her chain,
And gasping Furies thirst for blood in vain.
Here cease thy flight, nor with unhallow'd lays
Touch the fair fame of Albion's golden days:
The thoughts of Gods let Granville's verse recite,
And bring the scenes of opening fate to light.
My humble Muse, in unambitious strains,
Paints the green forests and the flow'ry plains,
Where Peace descending bids her olives spring,
And scatters blessings from her dove-like wing.
Ev'n I more sweetly pass my careless days,
Pleas'd in the silent shade with empty praise;
Enough for me, that to the list'ning swains
First in these fields I sung the sylvan strains.



In Yorkshire dwelt a sober Yeoman,
Whose Wife, a clean, pains-taking Woman,
Fed num'rous Poultry in her Pens,
And saw her Cocks well serve her Hens.
A Hen she had, whose tuneful Clocks
Drew after her a Train of Cocks:
With Eyes so piercing, yet so pleasant,
You would have sworn this Hen a Pheasant.
All the plum'd Beau-monde round her gathers;
Lord! what a Brustling up of Feathers!
Morning from Noon there was no knowing,
There was such Flutt'ring, Chuckling, Crowing:
Each forward Bird must thrust his head in,
And not a Cock but would be treading.
Yet tender was this Hen so fair,
And hatch'd more Chicks than she could rear.
Our prudent Dame bethought her then
Of some Dry-Nurse to save her Hen;
She made a Capon drunk: In fine
He eat the Sops, she sipp'd the Wine:
His Rump well pluck'd with Nettles stings,
And claps the Brood beneath his Wings.
The feather'd Dupe awakes content,
O'erjoy'd to see what God had sent.
Thinks he's the Hen, clocks, keeps a Pother,
A foolish Foster-Father-Mother.
Such, Lady Mary, are your Tricks;
But since you hatch, pray own your Chicks:
You should be better skill'd in Nocks,
Nor like your Capons, serve your Cocks.



Most true it is, I dare to say,
    E'er since the Days of Eve,
The weakest Woman sometimes may
    The wisest Man deceive.
For Dnt circumspect, sedate,
    A Machiavel by Trade,
Arriv'd Express, with News of Weight,
    And thus, at Court, he said.
At Godliman, hard by the Bull,
    A Woman, long thought barren,
Bears Rabbits,—Gad! so plentiful,
    You'd take her for a Warren.
These Eyes, quoth He, beheld them clear:
    What, do ye doubt my View?
Behold this Narrative that's here;
    Why, Zounds! and Blood! 'tis true!
Some said that Dgls sent should be,
    Some talk'd of Wlkr's Merit,
But most held, in this Midwifery,
    No Doctor like a Ferret.
But Mlnx, who heard this told,
    (Right wary He and wise)
Cry'd sagely, 'Tis not safe, I hold,
    To trust to Dnt's Eyes.
A Vow to God He then did make
    He would himself go down,
St. Adre too, the Scale to take
    Of that Phœnomenon.
He order'd then his Coach and Four;
    (The Coach was quickly got 'em)
Resolv'd this Secret to explore,
    And search it to the Bottom.
At Godliman they now arrive,
    For Haste they made exceeding;
As Courtiers should, whene'er they strive
    To be inform'd of Breeding.
The good Wife to the Surgeon sent,
    And said to him, Good Neighbour,
'Tis pity that two Squires so Gent—
    Should come and lose their Labour.
The Surgeon with a Rabbit came,
    And first in Pieces cut it;
Then slyly thrust it up that same,
    As far as Man could put it.
(Ye Guildford Inn-keepers take heed
    You dress not such a Rabbit,
Ye Poult'rers eke, destroy the Breed,
    'Tis so unsav'ry a-Bit.)
But hold! says Molly, first let's try,
    Now that her Legs are ope,
If ought within we may descry
    By Help of Telescope.
The Instrument himself did make,
    He rais'd and level'd right,
But all about was so opake,
    It could not aid his Sight.
On Tiptoe then the Squire he stood,
    (But first He gave Her Money)
Then reach'd as high as e'er He cou'd,
    And cry'd, I feel a Cony.
Is it alive? St. Adre cry'd;
    It is; I feel it stir.
Is it full grown? The Squire reply'd,
    It is; see here's the Fur.
And now two Legs St. Adre got,
    And then came two Legs more;
Now fell the Head to Molly's Lot,
    And so the Work was o'er.
The Woman, thus being brought to Bed,
    Said, to reward your Pains,
St. Andre shall dissect the Head,
    And thou shalt have the Brains.
He lap'd it in a Linnen Rag,
    Then thank'd Her for Her Kindness;
And cram'd it in the Velvet Bag
    That serves his Rl H
That Bag—which Jenny, wanton Slut,
    First brought to foul Disgrace;
Stealing the Papers thence she put
    Veal-Cutlets in their Place.
O! happy would it be, I ween,
    Could they these Rabbits smother;
Molly had ne'er a Midwife been,
    Nor she a shameful Mother.
Why has the Proverb falsly said
    Better two Heads than one;
Could Molly hide this Rabbit's Head,
    He still might shew his own.



Parson, these things in thy possessing,
Are better than the Bishop's blessing.
A Wife that makes conserves; a Steed
That carries double when there's need:
October, store, and best Virginia,
Tythe-Pig, and mortuary Guinea:
Gazettes sent gratis down, and frank'd,
For which thy Patron's weekly thank'd:
A large Concordance, bound long since:
Sermons to Charles the First, when Prince;
A Chronicle of ancient standing;
A Chrysostom to smooth thy band in.
The Polyglott—three parts,—my text,
Howbeit,—likewise—now to my next,
Lo here the Septuagint,—and Paul,
To sum the whole,—the close of all.
He that has these, may pass his life,
Drink with the 'Squire, and kiss his wife;
On Sundays preach, and eat his fill;
And fast on Fridays,—if he will;
Toast Church and Queen, explain the News,
Talk with Church-Wardens about Pews,
Pray heartily for some new Gift,
And shake his head at Doctor St.



From hour to hour melodiously they chime
With silver sounds, and sweetly tune out time.



Few words are best; I wish you well:
    Bethel, I'm told, will soon be here:
Some morning-walks along the Mall,
    And evening-friends will end the year.
If, in this interval, between
    The falling leaf and coming frost,
You please to see, on Twit'nam green,
    Your friend, your poet, and your host;
For three whole days you here may rest
    From office, business, news, and strife:
And (what most folks would think a jest)
    Want nothing else, except your wife.



May THESE put Money in your Purse,
For I assure you, I've read worse.



Ye Nymphs of Solyma! begin the song:
To heav'nly themes sublimer strains belong.
The mossy fountains, and the sylvan shades,
The dreams of Pindus and th'Aonian maids,
Delight no more—O thou my voice inspire
Who touch'd Isaiah's hallow'd lips with fire!
Rapt into future times, the Bard begun,
 A Virgin shall conceive, a Virgin bear a Son!
From 
 Jesse's root behold a branch arise,
Whose sacred flow'r with fragrance fills the skies:
Th'Æthereal spirit o'er its leaves shall move,
And on its top descends the mystic Dove.
Ye 
 heav'ns! from high the dewy nectar pour,
And in soft silence shed the kindly show'r!
The 
 sick and weak the healing plant shall aid,
From storms a shelter, and from heat a shade.
All crimes shall cease, and ancient fraud shall fail;
Returning 
 Justice lift aloft her scale;
Peace o'er the world her olive wand extend,
And white-rob'd Innocence from heav'n descend.
Swift fly the years, and rise th'expected morn!
Oh spring to light, auspicious Babe, be born!
 See Nature hastes her earliest wreaths to bring,
With all the incense of the breathing spring:
See lofty 
 Lebanon his head advance,
See nodding forests on the mountains dance;
See spicy clouds from lowly Saron rise,
And Carmel's flow'ry top perfumes the skies!
 Hark! a glad voice the lonely desart chears;
Prepare the 
 way! a God, a God appears:
A God; a God! the vocal hills reply,
The rocks proclaim th'approaching Deity.
Lo, earth receives him from the bending skies!
Sink down ye mountains, and ye valleys rise,
With heads declin'd, ye cedars, homage pay;
Be smooth ye rocks, ye rapid floods give way!
The Saviour comes! by ancient bards foretold;
Hear 
 him, ye deaf, and all ye blind, behold!
He from thick films shall purge the visual ray,
And on the sightless eye ball pour the day:
'Tis he th'obstructed paths of sound shall clear,
And bid new music charm th'unfolding ear:
The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego,
And leap exulting like the bounding roe.
No sigh, no murmur the wide world shall hear,
From ev'ry face he wipes off ev'ry tear,
In 
 adamantine chains shall Death be bound,
And Hell's grim Tyrant feel th'eternal wound.
As the good 
 shepherd tends his fleecy care,
Seeks freshest pasture and the purest air,
Explores the lost, the wand'ring sheep directs,
By day o'ersees them, and by night protects,
The tender lambs he raises in his arms,
Feeds from his hand, and in his bosom warms;
Thus shall mankind his guardian care engage,
The promis'd 
 father of the future age.
No more shall 
 nation against nation rise,
Nor ardent warriors meet with hateful eyes,
Nor fields with gleaming steel be cover'd o'er,
The brazen trumpets kindle rage no more;
But useless lances into scythes shall bend,
And the broad faulchion in a plow-share end.
Then palaces shall rise; the joyful 
 Son
Shall finish what his short-liv'd Sire begun;
Their vines a shadow to their race shall yield,
And the same hand that sow'd, shall reap the field.
 
The swain in barren 
 desarts with surprize
See lillies spring, and sudden verdure rise;
And starts, amidst the thirsty wilds to hear
New falls of water murm'ring in his ear.
On rifted rocks, the dragon's late abodes,
The green reed trembles, and the bulrush nods.
Waste sandy 
 valleys, once perplex'd with thorn,
The spiry fir and shapely box adorn;
To leafless shrubs the flow'ring palms succeed,
And od'rous myrtle to the noisom weed.
  The 
 lambs with wolves shall graze the verdant mead,
And boys in flow'ry bands the tyger lead;
The steer and lion at one crib shall meet,
And harmless 
 serpents lick the pilgrim's feet.
The smiling infant in his hand shall take
The crested basilisk and speckled snake,
Pleas'd the green lustre of the scales survey,
And with their forky tongue shall innocently play.
 
Rise, crown'd with light, imperial 
 Salem rise!
Exalt thy tow'ry head, and lift thy eyes!
See, a long 
 race thy spacious courts adorn;
See future sons, and daughters yet unborn,
In crouding ranks on ev'ry side arise,
Demanding life, impatient for the skies!
See barb'rous 
 nations at thy gates attend,
Walk in thy light, and in thy temple bend;
See thy bright altars throng'd with prostrate kings,
And heap'd with products of 
 Sabæan springs!
For thee Idume's spicy forests blow,
And seeds of gold in Ophyr's mountains glow.
See heav'n its sparkling portals wide display,
And break upon thee in a flood of day!
No more the rising 
 Sun shall gild the morn,
Nor ev'ning Cynthia fill her silver horn,
But lost, dissolv'd in thy superior rays,
One tyde of glory, one unclouded blaze
O'erflow thy courts: The Light himself shall shine
Reveal'd, and God's eternal day be thine!
The 
 seas shall waste, the skies in smoke decay,
Rocks fall to dust, and mountains melt away;
But fix'd his word, his saving pow'r remains;
Thy realm for ever lasts, thy own Messiah reigns!



O Happiness! our being's end and aim!
Good, pleasure, ease, content! whate'er thy name:
That something still which prompts th'eternal sigh,
For which we bear to live, and dare to die;
Which still so near us, yet beyond us lies,
O'erlook'd, seen double, by the fool, and wise.
Plant of Cælestial seed! if dropt below,
Say, in what mortal soil thou deign'st to grow?
Fair-opening to some Court's propitious shine,
Or deep with diamonds in the flaming mine,
Twin'd with the wreaths Parnassion laurels yield,
Or reap'd in Iron harvests of the Field?
Where grows—where grows it not? if vain our toil,
We ought to blame the Culture, not the Soil:
Fix'd to no spot is Happiness sincere,
'Tis no where to be found, or ev'ry where,
'Tis never to be bought, but always free,
And fled from Monarchs, St. John! dwells with thee.
Ask of the Learn'd the way, the Learn'd are blind,
This bids to serve, and that to shun mankind;
Some place the bliss in action, some in ease;
Those call it pleasure, and contentment these:
Who thus define it, say they more or less
Than this, that Happiness is Happiness?
One grants his pleasure is but rest from pain;
One doubts of all; one owns ev'n Virtue vain.
 Take Nature's path, and mad Opinion's leave,
All states can reach it, and all heads conceive;
Obvious her goods, in no extreme they dwell,
There needs but thinking right and meaning well;
And mourn our various portions as we please,
 Equal is common Sense, and common Ease.
Remember, Man, “the Universal Cause
“Acts not by partial but by gen'ral laws;
And makes what Happiness we justly call,
Subsist not in the good of one, but all.
There's not a blessing Individuals find,
But some way leans and hearkens to the Kind.
No Bandit fierce, no Tyrant mad with pride,
No cavern'd Hermit, rest self-satisfy'd;
Who most to shun or hate mankind pretend,
Seek and admirer, or wou'd fix a friend.
Abstract what others feel, what others think,
All pleasures sicken, and all Glories sink.
Each has his share; and who wou'd more obtain,
Shall find, the pleasure pays not half the pain.
 Order is Heav'n's great Law; and this confest,
Some are and must be, mightier than the rest,
More rich, more wise: but who infers from hence
That such are happier, shocks all common sense.
Heav'n to mankind impartial we confess,
If all are equal in their Happiness:
But mutual wants this happiness increase,
All Nature's diff'rence keeps all nature's peace.
Condition, Circumstance is not the thing:
Bliss is the same, in Subject, or in King,
In who obtain defence, or who defend,
In him who is, or him who finds, a friend.
Heav'n breathes thro' ev'ry member of the whole
One common blessing, as one common soul.
But Fortune's gifts if each alike possest,
And each were equal, must not all contest?
If then to all men happiness was meant,
God in Externals could not place content.
 Fortune her gifts may variously dispose,
And these be happy call'd, unhappy those:
But Heav'n's just balance equal will appear,
While those are plac'd in Hope, and these in Fear:
Not present Good or Ill, the joy or curse,
But future views, of better, or of worse.
Oh Sons of earth! attempt ye still to rise
By mountains pil'd on mountains to the Skies?
Heav'n still with laughter the vain toil surveys,
And buries madmen in the heaps they raise.
 Know all the good that individuals find,
Or God and nature meant to meer mankind,
Reason's whole pleasures, all the joys of sense,
Lie in three words, Health, Peace, and Competence.
But Health consists with temperance alone,
And Peace, O Virtue! Peace is all thy own;
The good or bad the gifts of Fortune gain;
But these less taste them, as they worse obtain.
Say, in pursuit of profit or delight,
Who risque the most, that take wrong means or right?
Of vice or virtue, whether blest or curst,
Which meets contempt, or which compassion first?
Count all th'advantage prosp'rous vice attains,
'Tis but what virtue flies from, and disdains;
And grant the bad what happiness they wou'd,
One they must want, which is, to pass for good.
 Oh blind to truth, and God's whole scheme below!
Who fancy bliss to vice, to virtue woe:
Who sees, and follows, that great scheme the best,
Best knows the blessing, and will most be blest.
But fools the Good alone unhappy call,
For ills or accidents that chance to All.
See Falkland dies, the virtuous and the just!
See godlike Turenne prostrate on the dust!
See Sidney bleeds amid the martial strife!
Was this their Virtue, or Contempt of life?
Say was it Virtue, more tho' heav'n ne'er gave,
Lamented Digby! sunk thee to the grave?
Tell me, if Virtue made the Son expire,
Why, full of days and honour, lives the Sire?
Why drew Marseille's good bishop purer breath,
When nature sicken'd and each gale was death?
Or why so long (in life if long can be)
Lent heav'n a Parent to the Poor, and me?
What makes all Physical or Moral ill?
There deviates Nature, and here wanders Will.
God sends not Ill; if rightly understood,
Or partial ill is universal good,
Or Change admits, or Nature lets it fall,
Short and but rare, till Man improv'd it all.
We just as wisely might of heav'n complain,
That righteous Abel was destroy'd by Cain,
As that the virtuous son is ill at ease,
When his lewd father gave the dire disease.
Think we like some weak Prince th'Eternal Cause,
Prone for his Fav'rites to reverse his laws?
Shall burning Ætna, if a sage requires,
Forget to thunder, and recall her fires?
On Air or Sea new motions be imprest,
O blameless Bethel! to relieve thy breast?
When the loose mountain trembles from on high,
Shall gravitation cease if you go by?
Or some old temple nodding to its fall,
For Chartres' head reserve the hanging wall?
But still this world (so fitted for the knave)
Contents us not. A better shall we have?
A kingdom of the just then let it be:
But first consider how those just agree?
The good must merit God's peculiar care;
But who but God can tell us which they are?
One thinks on Calvin heav'n's own spirit fell,
Another deems him Instrument of hell?
If Calvin feel heav'n's blessing, or its rod,
This cries there is, and that, “there is no God.”
What shocks one part will edify the rest,
Nor with one system can they all be blest.
The very best will variously incline,
And what rewards your Virtue, punish mine.
“Whatever is, is right.” This world, 'tis true,
Was made for Cæsar—but for Titus too:
And which more blest? who chain'd his Country, say,
Or he, whose virtue sigh'd to lose a day?
“But sometimes Virtue starves while Vice is fed.”
What then? is the reward of virtue, bread?
That, Vice may merit; 'tis the price of Toil:
The knave deserves it when he tills the soil;
The knave deserves it when he tempts the main,
Where Folly fights, for Tyrants, or for Gain.
The good man may be weak, be indolent,
Nor is his claim to Plenty, but Content.
But grant him Riches, your demand is o'er?
“No—shall the good want Health, the good want Pow'r?
Add health, and pow'r, and ev'ry earthly thing:
“Why bounded pow'r? why private? why no King?
Nay, why external for internal giv'n,
Why is not Man a God, and Earth a Heav'n?
Who ask and reason thus, will scarce conceive
God gives enough while he has more to give:
Immense the pow'r, immense were the demand;
Say, at what part of nature will they stand?
What nothing earthly gives, or can destroy,
The soul's calm sun-shine, and the heart-felt joy,
 Is Virtue's prize: a better would you fix?
Then give Humility a Coach and six,
Justice a Conqu'ror's sword, or Truth a Gown,
Or publick Spirit its great cure, a Crown:
Rewards, that either would to virtue bring
No joy, or be destructive of the thing.
How oft by these at sixty are undone
The virtues of a Saint at twenty one!
 For Riches, can they give, but to the Just,
His own contentment, or another's trust?
Judges and Senates have been bought for gold,
Esteem and love were never to be sold.
O fool! to think, God hates the worthy mind,
The Lover, and the Love, of Human kind,
Whose life is healthful, and whose conscience clear;
Because he wants a thousand pounds a year!
 Honour and shame from no Condition rise;
Act well your part, there all the Honour lies.
Fortune in men has some small diff'rence made,
One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade.
The Cobler apron'd, and the Parson gown'd,
The Fryar hooded, and the Monarch crown'd.
“What differ more (you cry) than crown and cowl?”
I'll tell you, friend: a Wise man and a fool.
You'll find, if once the monarch acts the monk,
Or cobler-like, the parson will be drunk,
Worth makes the Man, and want of it the Fellow;
The rest, is all but Leather or Prunella.
 Stuck o'er with Titles, and hung round with strings,
That thou may'st be, by Kings, or Whores of kings.
 Thy boasted blood, a thousand years or so,
May from Lucretia to Lucretia flow;
But by your Father's worth if yours you rate,
Count me those only who were good and great.
Go! if your antient but ignoble blood
Has crept thro' scoundrels ever since the Flood,
Go! and pretend your family is young;
Not own your fathers have been fools so long.
What can ennoble sots, or slaves, or cowards?
Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards.
 Look next on Greatness, say where Greatness lies?
“Where, but among the Heroes, and the Wise?
Heroes are much the same, the point's agreed,
From Macedonia's Madman to the Swede;
The whole strange purpose of their lives, to find
Or make, an enemy of all mankind;
Not one looks backward, onward still he goes,
Yet ne'er looks forward farther than his nose.
No less alike the Politick and wise,
All sly, slow things, with circumspective eyes;
Men in their loose, unguarded hours they take,
Nor that themselves are wife, but others weak.
But grant that those can conquer, these can cheat,
'Tis phrase absurd to call a Villain Great:
Who wickedly is wise, or madly brave,
Is but the more a fool, the more a knave.
Who noble ends by noble means obtains,
Or failing, smiles in Exile or in chains,
Like good Aurelius let him reign, or bleed
Like Socrates, that man is great indeed,
 What's Fame? that fancy'd life in others breath,
A thing beyond us, ev'n before our death.
Just what you hear, you have, and what's unknown
The same (my Lord) if Tully's, or your own.
All that we feel of it begins and ends
In the small circle of our foes or friends;
To all beside, as much an empty shade
An Eugene living, as a Cæsar dead,
Alike, or when or where, they shone or shine,
Or on the Rubicon, or on the Rhine.
A Wit's a feather, and a Chief a rod;
An honest man's the noblest work of God:
Fame but from death a villain's name can save,
As Justice tears his body from the grave;
When what t'oblivion better were resign'd
Is hung on high, to poison half mankind.
All fame is foreign, but of true Desert,
Plays round the head, but comes not to the heart.
One self-approving hour whole years out-weighs
Of stupid starers, and of loud huzza's;
And more true joy Marcellus exil'd feels,
Than Cæsar with a Senate at his heels.
 In Parts superior what advantage lies!
Tell (for You can) what is it to be wise?
'Tis but to know, how little can be known;
To see all others faults, and feel our own;
Condemn'd, in business or in arts, to drudge
Without a Second, or without a Judge:
Truths would you teach, or save a sinking land?
All fear, none aid you, and few understand.
Painful Preheminence! your self to view
Above Life's weakness, and its Comforts too.
Bring then these blessings to a strict account,
Make fair deductions, see to what they mount?
How much of other each is sure to cost?
How each for other oft is wholly lost?
How inconsistent greater goods with these?
How sometimes Life is risqu'd, and always Ease?
Think, and if still the things thy envy call,
Say, wouldst thou be the Man to whom they fall?
To sigh for ribbands if thou art so silly,
Mark how they grace Lord Umbra, or Sir Billy:
Is yellow dirt the passion of thy life?
Look but on Gripus, or on Gripus' wife:
If parts allure thee, think how Bacon shin'd,
The wisest, brightest, meanest of mankind,
Or ravish'd with the whistling of a name,
See Cromwell, damn'd to everlasting fame!
If all, united, thy ambition call,
From ancient Story learn to scorn them all.
There, in the rich, the honour'd, fam'd, and great,
See the false scale of Happiness compleat!
In hearts of Kings or arms of Queens who lay,
(How happy!) those to ruin, these betray:
Mark by what wretched steps their glory grows,
From dirt and sea-weed as proud Venice rose;
In each, how guilt and greatness equal ran,
And all that rais'd the Hero, sunk the Man.
Now Europe's laurels on their brows behold,
But stain'd with blood, or ill exchang'd for gold:
Then see them broke with Toils, or sunk in Ease,
Or infamous for plunder'd Provinces.
Oh wealth ill-fated! which no act of fame
E'er taught to shine, or sanctify'd from shame!
What greater bliss attends their close of life?
Some greedy Minion, or imperious Wife,
The trophy'd Arches, story'd Halls invade,
And haunt their slumbers in the pompous shade.
Alas! not dazled with their noontide ray,
Compute the morn and evening to the day:
The whole amount of that enormous fame,
A Tale! that blends their Glory with their Shame.
Know then this truth (enough for man to know)
 “Virtue alone is Happiness below:
The only point where human bliss stands still,
And tastes the good without the fall to ill;
Where only, merit constant pay receives,
Is bless'd in what it takes, and what it gives;
The joy unequal'd, if its end it gain,
And if it lose, attended with no pain;
Without satiety, tho' e'er so bless'd,
And but more relish'd as the more distress'd;
The broadest mirth unfeeling Folly wears,
Less pleasing far than Virtue's very tears:
Good, from each object, from each place acquir'd;
For ever exercis'd, yet never tir'd;
Never elated, while one man's oppress'd,
Never dejected, while another's bless'd;
And where no wants, no wishes can remain,
Since but to wish more virtue, is to gain.
See! the sole bliss Heav'n could on All bestow,
 Which who but feels, can taste, but thinks, can know:
Yet poor with Fortune, and with Learning blind,
The bad must miss, the good untaught will find;
Slave to no sect, who takes no private road,
But looks thro' Nature up to Nature's God;
Pursues that chain which links th'immense design,
Joins Heav'n and Earth, and mortal, and divine;
Sees, that no being any bliss can know;
But touches some above, and some below;
Learns, from this Union of the rising Whole,
The first, last purpose of the human soul;
And knows, where Faith, Law, Morals all began,
All end, in Love of God, and Love of Man.
For him alone, Hope leads from gole to gole,
And opens still, and opens on his soul;
Till lengthen'd on to Faith, and unconfin'd,
It pours the bliss that fills up all the mind.
He sees, why Nature plants in Man alone
Hope of known bliss, and Faith in bliss unknown:
(Nature, whose dictates to no other kind
Are giv'n in vain, but what they seek, they find)
Wise in the Present: she connects in this
His greatest Virtue with his greatest Bliss,
At once his own bright prospect to be blest,
And strongest motive to assist the rest.
Self-love thus push'd to social, to divine,
Gives thee to make thy neighbour's blessing thine:
Is this too little for the boundless heart?
Extend it, let thy Enemies have part:
Grasp the whole worlds, of reason, life, and sense,
In one close system of Benevolence.
Happier, as kinder! in whate'er degree,
And height of Bliss but height of Charity.
God loves from whole to parts: but human soul
Must rise from individual to the whole.
Self-love but serves the virtuous mind to wake,
As the small pebble stirs the peaceful lake;
The centre mov'd, a circle strait succeeds;
Another still, and still another spreads;
Friend, parent, neighbour, first it will embrace,
His country next, and next all human-race;
Wide, and more wide, th'o'erflowings of the mind
Take ev'ry creature in, of ev'ry kind;
Earth smiles around, with boundless bounty blest,
And Heav'n beholds its image in his breast.
Come then, my Friend! my Genius come along,
Oh master of the Poet, and the Song!
And while the Muse now stoops, or now ascends,
To Man's low passions, or their glorious Ends,
Teach me like thee, in various nature wise,
To fall with dignity, with temper rise;
Form'd by thy converse, happily to steer
From grave to gay, from lively to severe;
Correct with spirit, eloquent with ease,
Intent to reason, or polite to please.
O! while along the stream of Time, thy name
Expanded flies, and gathers all its fame,
Say, shall my little bark attendant sail,
Pursue the triumph, and partake the gale?
When Statesmen, Heroes, Kings, in dust repose,
Whose sons shall blush their fathers were thy foes.
Shall then this verse to future age pretend
Thou wert my Guide, Philosopher, and Friend?
That urg'd by thee, I turn'd the tuneful art
From sounds to things, from Fancy to the Heart;
For Wit's false mirror held up Nature's light;
Shew'd erring Pride, whatever Is, is Right;
That Reason, Passion, answer one great Aim;
That true Self-love and Social are the same;
That Virtue only makes our Bliss below;
And all our Knowledge is, Ourselves to know.



Now Europe's balanc'd, neither Side prevails,
For nothing's left in either of the Scales.



Some Colinæus praise, some Bleau,
Others account 'em but so so;
Some Plantin to the rest prefer,
And some esteem Old-Elzevir;
Others with Aldus would besot us;
I, for my part, admire Lintottus.—
His Character's beyond Compare,
Like his own Person, large and fair.
They print their Names in Letters small,
But Lintot stands in Capital:
Author and he, with equal Grace,
Appear, and stare you in the Face:
Stephens prints Heathen Greek, 'tis said,
Which some can't construe, some can't read:
But all that comes from Lintot's Hand
Ev'n Rason might understand.
Oft in an Aldus, or a Plantin,
A Page is blotted, or Leaf wanting:
Of Lintot's Books this can't be said,
All fair, and not so much as read.
Their Copy cost 'em not a Penny
To Homer, Virgil, or to any;
They ne'er gave Sixpence for two Lines,
To them, their Heirs, or their Assigns:
But Lintot is at vast Expence,
And pays prodigious dear for—Sense.
Their Books are useful but to few,
A Scholar, or a Wit or two:
Lintot's for gen'ral Use are fit;
For some Folks read, but all Folks sh.



There are (I scarce can think it, but am told)
There are to whom my Satire seems too bold:
Scarce to wise Peter complaisant enough,
And something said of Chartres much too rough.
The lines are weak, another's pleas'd to say,
Lord Fanny spins a thousand such a day.
Tim'rous by nature, of the Rich in awe,
I come to Council learned in the Law.
You'll give me, like a friend both sage and free,
Advice; and (as you use) without a Fee.
I'd write no more.
Not write? but then I think,
And for my soul I cannot sleep a wink.
I nod in company, I wake at night,
Fools rush into my head, and so I write.
You could not do a worse thing for your life.
Why, if the nights seem tedious—take a wife:
Or rather truly, if your point be rest,
Lettuce and cowslip wine: Probatum est.
But talk with Celsus, Celsus will advise
Hartshorn, or something that shall close your eyes.
Or, if you needs must write, write Caesar's praise:
You'll gain at least a Knighthood, or the Bays.
What? like Sir Richard, rumbling, rough, and fierce,
With Arms, and George, and Brunswick, crowd the verse,
Rend with tremendous sound your ears asunder,
With Gun, drum, trumpet, blunderbuss, and thunder?
Or nobly wild, with Budgell's fire and force,
Paint Angels trembling round his falling Horse?
Then all your Muse's softer art display,
Let Carolina smooth the tuneful lay,
Lull with Amelia's liquid name the nine,
And sweetly flow through all the Royal Line.
Alas! few verses touch their nicer ear;
They scarce can bear their Laureate twice a year:
And justly Caesar scorns the Poet's lays,
It is to History he trusts for Praise.
Better be Cibber, I'll maintain it still,
Than ridicule all Taste, blaspheme Quadrille,
Abuse the City's best good men in metre,
And laugh at Peers that put their trust in Peter.
Ev'n those you touch not, hate you.
What should ail 'em?
A hundred smart in Timon and in Balaam:
The fewer still you name, you wound the more;
Bond is but one, but Harpax is a score.
Each mortal has his pleasure: none deny
Sc&sblank;le his bottle, D&sblank;ty his Ham-pye;
Ridotta sips and dances, till she see
The doubling Lustres dance as fast as she;
F loves the Senate, Hockley-hole his brother,
Like in all else, as one egg to another.
I love to pour out all my self, as plain
As downright Shippen, or as old Montagne.
In them, as certain to be lov'd as seen,
The Soul stood forth, not kept a thought within;
In me, what spots (for spots I have) appear,
Will prove at least the Medium must be clear.
In this impartial glass, my Muse intends
Fair to expose my self, my foes, my friends;
Publish the present age; but where my text
Is vice too high, reserve it for the next:
My foes shall wish my life a longer date,
And ev'ry friend the less lament my fate.
My head and heart thus flowing thro' my quill,
Verse-man or Prose-man, term me which you will,
Papist or Protestant, or both between,
Like good Erasmus in an honest mean,
In moderation placing all my glory,
While Tories call me Whig, and Whigs a Tory.
Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet
To run a muck, and tilt at all I meet;
I only wear it in a land of Hectors,
Thieves, Supercargoes, Sharpers, and Directors,
Save but our Army! and let Jove incrust
Swords, pikes, and guns, with everlasting rust!
Peace is my dear delight—not Fleury's more:
But touch me, and no Minister so sore.
Whoe'er offends, at some unlucky time
Slides into verse, and hitches in a rhyme,
Sacred to ridicule his whole life long,
And the sad burthen of some merry song.
Slander or poyson dread from Delia's rage,
Hard words or hanging, if your Judge be
From furious Sappho scarce a milder fate,
P-x'd by her love, or libell'd by her hate.
Its proper pow'r to hurt, each creature feels,
Bulls aim their horns, and asses lift their heels,
'Tis a bear's talent not to kick but hug,
And no man wonders he's not stung by Pug:
So drink with Waters, or with Chartres eat,
They'll never poyson you, they'll only cheat.
Then, learned Sir! (to cut the matter short)
Whate'er my fate, or well or ill at Court,
Whether old age with faint, but chearful ray,
Attends to gild the Evening of my day,
Or death's black wing already be display'd
To wrap me in the universal shade;
Whether the darken'd room to muse invite,
Or whiten'd wall provoke the skew'r to write;
In durance, exile, Bedlam, or the Mint,
Like Lee or Budgell, I will rhyme, and print.
Each mortal has his pleasure: none deny
Sc&sblank;le his bottle, D&sblank;ty his Ham-pye;
Ridotta sips and dances, till she see
The doubling Lustres dance as fast as she;
F loves the Senate, Hockley-hole his brother,
Like in all else, as one egg to another.
I love to pour out all my self, as plain
As downright Shippen, or as old Montagne.
In them, as certain to be lov'd as seen,
The Soul stood forth, not kept a thought within;
In me, what spots (for spots I have) appear,
Will prove at least the Medium must be clear.
In this impartial glass, my Muse intends
Fair to expose my self, my foes, my friends;
Publish the present age; but where my text
Is vice too high, reserve it for the next:
My foes shall wish my life a longer date,
And ev'ry friend the less lament my fate.
My head and heart thus flowing thro' my quill,
Verse-man or Prose-man, term me which you will,
Papist or Protestant, or both between,
Like good Erasmus in an honest mean,
In moderation placing all my glory,
While Tories call me Whig, and Whigs a Tory.
Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet
To run a muck, and tilt at all I meet;
I only wear it in a land of Hectors,
Thieves, Supercargoes, Sharpers, and Directors,
Save but our Army! and let Jove incrust
Swords, pikes, and guns, with everlasting rust!
Peace is my dear delight—not Fleury's more:
But touch me, and no Minister so sore.
Whoe'er offends, at some unlucky time
Slides into verse, and hitches in a rhyme,
Sacred to ridicule his whole life long,
And the sad burthen of some merry song.
Slander or poyson dread from Delia's rage,
Hard words or hanging, if your Judge be
From furious Sappho scarce a milder fate,
P-x'd by her love, or libell'd by her hate.
Its proper pow'r to hurt, each creature feels,
Bulls aim their horns, and asses lift their heels,
'Tis a bear's talent not to kick but hug,
And no man wonders he's not stung by Pug:
So drink with Waters, or with Chartres eat,
They'll never poyson you, they'll only cheat.
Then, learned Sir! (to cut the matter short)
Whate'er my fate, or well or ill at Court,
Whether old age with faint, but chearful ray,
Attends to gild the Evening of my day,
Or death's black wing already be display'd
To wrap me in the universal shade;
Whether the darken'd room to muse invite,
Or whiten'd wall provoke the skew'r to write;
In durance, exile, Bedlam, or the Mint,
Like Lee or Budgell, I will rhyme, and print.
Alas young man! your days can ne'er be long,
In flow'r of age you perish for a song!
Plums and Directors, Shylock and his Wife,
Will club their testers, now, to take your life!
What? arm'd for Virtue when I point the pen,
Brand the bold front of shameless, guilty men,
Dash the proud Gamester in his gilded car,
Bare the mean heart that lurks beneath a Star;
Can there be wanting, to defend Her cause,
Lights of the Church, or Guardians of the Laws?
Could pension'd Boileau lash in honest strain
Flatt'rers and bigots ev'n in Louis' reign?
Could Laureate Dryden Pimp and Fry'r engage,
Yet neither Charles nor James be in a rage?
And I not strip the gilding off a Knave,
Unplac'd, unpension'd, no man's heir, or slave?
I will, or perish in the gen'rous cause:
Hear this and tremble! you who 'scape the laws.
Yes, while I live, no rich or noble knave
Shall walk in peace, and credit, to his grave.
To Virtue only and her friends a friend,
The World beside may murmur, or commend.
Know, all the distant din that world can keep
Rolls o'er my Grotto, and but sooths my sleep.
There, my retreat the best companions grace,
Chiefs out of war, and Statesmen out of place.
There St. John mingles with my friendly bowl,
The Feast of Reason and the Flow of soul:
And  He, whose lightning pierc'd th'Iberian lines,
Now forms my Quincunx, and now ranks my Vines,
Or tames the Genius of the stubborn plain,
Almost as quickly, as he conquer'd Spain.
Envy must own, I live among the Great,
No Pimp of pleasure, and no Spy of state,
With eyes that pry not, tongue that ne'er repeats,
Fond to spread friendships, but to cover heats,
To help who want, to forward who excel;
This, all who know me, know; who love me, tell;
And who unknown defame me, let them be
Scriblers or Peers, alike are Mob to me.
This is my plea, on this I rest my cause—
What saith my Council learned in the laws?
What? arm'd for Virtue when I point the pen,
Brand the bold front of shameless, guilty men,
Dash the proud Gamester in his gilded car,
Bare the mean heart that lurks beneath a Star;
Can there be wanting, to defend Her cause,
Lights of the Church, or Guardians of the Laws?
Could pension'd Boileau lash in honest strain
Flatt'rers and bigots ev'n in Louis' reign?
Could Laureate Dryden Pimp and Fry'r engage,
Yet neither Charles nor James be in a rage?
And I not strip the gilding off a Knave,
Unplac'd, unpension'd, no man's heir, or slave?
I will, or perish in the gen'rous cause:
Hear this and tremble! you who 'scape the laws.
Yes, while I live, no rich or noble knave
Shall walk in peace, and credit, to his grave.
To Virtue only and her friends a friend,
The World beside may murmur, or commend.
Know, all the distant din that world can keep
Rolls o'er my Grotto, and but sooths my sleep.
There, my retreat the best companions grace,
Chiefs out of war, and Statesmen out of place.
There St. John mingles with my friendly bowl,
The Feast of Reason and the Flow of soul:
And  He, whose lightning pierc'd th'Iberian lines,
Now forms my Quincunx, and now ranks my Vines,
Or tames the Genius of the stubborn plain,
Almost as quickly, as he conquer'd Spain.
Envy must own, I live among the Great,
No Pimp of pleasure, and no Spy of state,
With eyes that pry not, tongue that ne'er repeats,
Fond to spread friendships, but to cover heats,
To help who want, to forward who excel;
This, all who know me, know; who love me, tell;
And who unknown defame me, let them be
Scriblers or Peers, alike are Mob to me.
This is my plea, on this I rest my cause—
What saith my Council learned in the laws?
Your Plea is good; but still, I say, beware!
Laws are explain'd by Men—so have a care.
It stands on record, that in Richard's times
A man was hang'd for very honest rhymes.
Consult the Statute: quart. I think it is,
Edwardi sext. or prim. & quint. Eliz.
See Libels, Satires—here you have it—read.
Libels and Satires! lawless things indeed!
But grave Epistles, bringing vice to light,
Such as a King might read, a Bishop write,
Such as Sir Robert would approve—
Indeed?
The Case is alter'd—you may then proceed;
In such a cause the Plaintiff will be hiss'd,
My Lords the Judges laugh, and you're dismiss'd.



    Again? new Tumults in my Breast?
Ah spare me, Venus! let me, let me rest!
    I am not now, alas! the Man
As in the gentle Reign of my Queen Anne.
    Ah sound no more thy soft Alarms,
Nor circle sober fifty with thy Charms.
    Mother too fierce of dear Desires!
Turn, turn to willing Hearts your wanton Fires.
    To Number five direct your Doves,
There spread round Murray all your blooming Loves;
    Noble and young, who strikes the Heart
With every sprightly, every decent Part;
    Equal, the injur'd to defend,
To charm the Mistress, or to fix the Friend.
    He, with a hundred Arts refin'd,
Shall stretch thy Conquests over half the Kind:
    To Him each Rival shall submit,
Make but his Riches equal to his Wit.
    Then shall thy Form the Marble grace,
(Thy Grecian Form) and Chloe lend the Face:
    His House, embosom'd in the Grove,
Sacred to social Life, and social Love,
    Shall glitter o'er the pendent Green,
Where Thames reflects the visionary Scene:
    Thither the silver-sounding Lyres
Shall call the smiling Loves and young Desires;
    There every Grace and Muse shall throng,
Exalt the Dance, or animate the Song;
    There Youths and Nymphs, in Concert gay,
Shall hail the rising, close the parting Day.
    With Me, alas! those Joys are o'er;
For Me the vernal Garlands bloom no more.
    Adieu! fond Hope of mutual Fire,
The still believing, still renew'd Desire;
    Adieu! the Heart-expanding Bowl,
And all the kind Deceivers of the Soul!
    But why, ah tell me, ah too dear!
Steals down my Cheek th'involuntary Tear?
    Why Words so flowing, Thoughts so free,
Stop, or turn Nonsense, at one Glance of Thee?
    Thee, dress'd in Fancy's airy Beam,
Absent I follow thro' th'extended Dream;
    Now, now I seize, I clasp thy Charms,
And now you burst (ah cruel!) from my Arms;
    And swiftly shoot along the Mall,
Or softly glide by the Canal,
    Now shown by Cynthia's silver Ray,
And now on rolling Waters snatch'd away.



What Authors lose, their Booksellers have won,
So Pimps grow rich, while Gallants are undone.



While yet a Child, I chanc'd to stray,
And in a Desart sleeping lay;
The savage Race withdrew, nor dar'd
To touch the Muses future Bard:
But Cytheræa's gentle Dove
    Myrtles and Bays around me spread,
    And crown'd your Infant Poet's Head,
Sacred to Musick and to Love.



But our Great Turks in wit must reign alone
And ill can bear a Brother on the Throne.
Wit is like faith by such warm Fools profest
Who to be savd by one, must damn the rest.
Some who grow dull religious strait commence
And gain in morals what they lose in sence.
Wits starve as useless to a Common weal
While Fools have places purely for their Zeal.
Now wits gain praise by copying other wits
As one Hog lives on what another sh.
Woud you your writings to some Palates fit
Purge all your verses from the sin of wit
For authors now are so conceited grown
They praise no works but what are like their own



O reader, if that thou canst read,
    Look down upon this Stone;
Do all we can, Death is a Man
    That never spareth none.



Fly Pegasæan Steed, thy Rider bear,
To breath the Sweets of pure Parnassian Air,
Aloft I'm swiftly born, methinks I rise,
And with my Head Sublime can reach the Sky.
Large Gulps of Aganippe's streams I'll draw,
And give to Modern Writers Classic Law;
In Grecian Buskins Tragedy shall Mourn,
And to its Ancient Mirth the Comic Sock return.



Fain would my Muse the flow'ry Treasures sing,
And humble glories of the youthful Spring;
Where opening Roses breathing sweets diffuse,
And soft Carnations show'r their balmy dews;
Where Lillies smile in virgin robes of white,
The thin Undress of superficial Light,
And vary'd Tulips show so dazling gay,
Blushing in bright diversities of day.
Each painted flouret in the lake below
Surveys its beauties, whence its beauties grow;
And pale Narcissus on the bank, in vain
Transformed, gazes on himself again.
Here aged trees Cathedral walks compose,
And mount the Hill in venerable rows:
There the green Infants in their beds are laid,
The Garden's Hope, and its expected shade.
Here Orange-trees with blooms and pendants shine,
And vernal honours to their autumn join;
Exceed their promise in the ripen'd store,
Yet in the rising blossom promise more.
There in bright drops the crystal Fountains play,
By Laurels shielded from the piercing Day:
Where Daphne, now a tree as once a maid,
Still from Apollo vindicates her shade,
Still turns her beauties from th'invading beam,
Nor seeks in vain for succour to the Stream.
The stream at once preserves her virgin leaves,
At once a shelter from her boughs receives,
Where Summer's beauty midst of Winter stays,
And Winter's Coolness spite of Summer's rays.



Well, if it be my time to quit the stage,
Adieu to all the follies of the age!
I die in charity with fool and knave,
Secure of peace at least beyond the grave.
I've had my purgatory here betimes,
And paid for all my satires, all my rhymes.
The Poet's hell, its tortures, fiends, and flames,
To this were trifles, toys, and empty names.
With foolish pride my heart was never fir'd,
Nor the vain itch t'admire, or be admir'd;
I hop'd for no commission from his Grace;
I bought no benefice, I begg'd no place;
Had no new verses, or new suit to show;
Yet went to Court!—the Dev'l would have it so.
But, as the fool that in reforming days
Wou'd go to Mass in jest, (as story says)
Could not but think, to pay his fine was odd,
Since 'twas no form'd design of serving God:
So was I punish'd, as if full as proud
As prone to ill, as negligent of good,
As deep in debt, without a thought to pay,
As vain, as idle, and as false, as they
Who live at Court, for going once that way!
Scarce was I enter'd, when, behold! there came
A thing which Adam had been pos'd to name;
Noah had refus'd it lodging in his Ark,
Where all the race of Reptiles might embark:
A verier monster than on Africk's shore,
The sun e'er got, or slimy Nilus bore,
Or Sloane, or Woodward's wondrous shelves contain;
Nay, all that lying Travellers can feign.
The watch would hardly let him pass at noon;
At night, wou'd swear him dropt out of the moon:
One whom the mob, when next we find or make
A Popish plot, shall for a Jesuit take;
And the wise Justice starting from his chair
Cry, by your Priesthood tell me what you are?
Such was the wight: Th'apparel on his back
Tho' coarse, was rev'rend, and tho' bare, was black:
The suit, if by the fashion one might guess,
Was velvet in the youth of good queen Bess,
But mere tuff-taffety what now remain'd;
So time that changes all things, had ordain'd!
Our sons shall see it leisurely decay,
First turn plain rash, then vanish quite away.
This thing has travel'd, speaks each language too,
And knows what's fit for every state to do;
Of whose best phrase and courtly accent join'd,
He forms one tongue, exotic and refin'd.
Talkers, I've learn'd to bear; Motteux I knew,
Henley himself I've heard, and Budgel too:
The Doctor's Wormwood style, the Hash of tongues
A Pedant makes, the storm of Gonson's lungs,
The whole Artill'ry of the terms of War,
And (all those plagues in one) the bawling Bar:
These I cou'd bear; but not a rogue so civil,
Whose tongue will complement you to the devil.
A tongue that can cheat widows, cancel scores,
Make Scots speak treason, cozen subtlest whores,
With royal Favourites in flatt'ry vie,
And Oldmixon and Burnet both out-lie.
He spies me out, I whisper, gracious God!
What sin of mine cou'd merit such a rod?
That all the shot of dulness now must be
From this thy blunderbuss discharg'd on me!
Permit (he cries) no stranger to your fame
To crave your sentiment, if 's your name.
What Speech esteem you most?—“The King's, said I.
But the best words?—“O Sir, the Dictionary.
You miss my aim; I mean the most acute
And perfect Speaker?—“Onslow, past dispute.
But Sir, of writers? “Swift, for closer style,
“But Ho&sblank;&sblank;y for a period of a mile.
Why yes, 'tis granted, these indeed may pass;
Good common linguists, and so Panurge was;
Nay, troth, th'Apostles (tho' perhaps too rough)
Had once a pretty gift of tongues enough:
Yet these were all poor Gentlemen! I dare
Affirm, 'twas Travel made them what they were.
Thus others talents having nicely shown,
He came by sure transition to his own:
Till I cry'd out, You prove your self so able,
Pity! you was not Druggerman at Bable;
For had they found a linguist half so good,
I make no question but the Tow'r had stood.
“Obliging Sir! for Courts you sure were made:
“Why then for ever buried in the shade?
“Spirits like you, should see and shou'd be seen,
“The King would smile on you—at least the Queen.
Ah gentle Sir! you Courtiers so cajol us—
But Tully has it, Nunquam minus solus:
And as for Courts, forgive me if I say
No lessons now are taught the Spartan way:
Tho' in his pictures Lust be full display'd,
Few are the Converts Aretine has made;
And tho' the Court show Vice exceeding clear,
None shou'd, by my advice, learn Virtue there.
At this entranc'd, he lifts his hands and eyes,
Squeaks like a high-stretch'd lutestring, and replies:
“Oh 'tis the sweetest of all earthly things
“To gaze on Princes, and to talk of Kings!
Then happy Man who shows the Tombs! said I,
He dwells amidst the royal Family;
He ev'ry day, from King to King can walk,
Of all our Harries, all our Edwards talk,
And get by speaking truth of monarchs dead,
What few can of the living, Ease and Bread.
“Lord, Sir, a meer mechanic! strangely low,
“And coarse of phrase—your English all are so.
“How elegant the Frenchman?—Mine, d'ye mean?
I have but one, I hope the fellow's clean.
“Oh! Sir, politely well! nay, let me die,
“Your only wearing is your Padua-soy.”
Not Sir my only, I have better still,
And this you see is but my dishabille—
Wild to get loose, his Patience I provoke,
Mistake, confound, object at all he spoke.
But as coarse iron, sharpen'd, mangles more,
And itch most hurts when anger'd to a sore;
So when you plague a fool, 'tis still the curse,
You only make the matter worse and worse.
He past it o'er; affects an easy smile
At all my peevishness, and turns his style.
He asks, “what News? I tell him of new Plays,
New Eunuchs, Harlequins, and Operas.
He hears, and as a Still with simples in it,
Between each drop it gives, stays half a minute,
Loth to enrich me with too quick replies,
By little, and by little, drops his lies.
Meer houshold trash! of birth-nights, balls, and shows,
More than ten Hollingsheads, or Halls, or Stows.
When the Queen frown'd, or smil'd, he knows; and what
A subtle Minister may make of that?
Who sins with whom? who got his Pension rug,
Or quicken'd a Reversion by a drug?
Whose place is quarter'd out, three parts in four,
And whether to a Bishop or a Whore?
Who, having lost his credit, pawn'd his rent,
Is therefore fit to have a Government?
Who in the secret, deals in Stocks secure,
And cheats th'unknowing Widow and the Poor?
Who makes a Trust, or Charity a Job,
And gets an Act of Parliament to rob?
Why Turnpikes rose, and now no Cit nor clown
Can gratis see the country, or the town?
Shortly no lad shall chuck, or lady vole,
But some excising Courtier will have toll.
He tells what strumpet places sells for life,
What 'Squire his lands, what citizen his wife?
And last (which proves him wiser still than all)
What Lady's face is not a whited wall?
As one of Woodward's patients, sick and sore,
I puke, I nauseate,—yet he thrusts in more:
Trims Europe's balance, tops the statesman's part,
And talks Gazettes and Post-boys o'er by heart.
Like a big wife, at sight of loathsome meat
Ready to cast, I yawn, I sigh, I sweat.
Then as a licens'd spy, whom nothing can
Silence or hurt, he libels the great Man;
Swears every place entail'd for years to come,
In sure succession to the day of doom:
He names the price for ev'ry office paid,
And says our wars thrive ill, because delay'd:
Nay hints, 'tis by connivance of the Court,
That Spain robs on, and Dunkirk's still a Port.
Not more amazement seiz'd on Circe's guests,
To see themselves fall endlong into beasts,
Than mine, to find a subject stay'd and wise
Already half turn'd traytor by surprize.
I felt th'infection slide from him to me,
As in the pox, some give it to get free;
And quick to swallow me, methought I saw
One of our Giant Statutes ope its jaw!
In that nice moment, as another lye
Stood just a-tilt, the Minister came by.
To him he flies, and bows, and bows again—
Then close as Umbra, joins the dirty train.
Not Fannius self more impudently near,
When half his nose is in his Prince's ear.
I quak'd at heart; and still afraid to see
All the court fill'd with stranger things than he,
Ran out as fast, as one that pays his bail
And dreads more actions, hurries from a jail.
Bear me, some God! oh quickly bear me hence
To wholsome Solitude, the nurse of sense:
There Contemplation prunes her ruffled wings,
And the free soul looks down to pity Kings.
There sober thought pursu'd th'amusing theme,
Till Fancy colour'd it, and form'd a Dream.
A vision hermits can to Hell transport,
And force ev'n me to see the damn'd at Court.
Not Dante dreaming all th'infernal state,
Beheld such scenes of envy, sin, and hate.
Base Fear becomes the guilty, not the free;
Suits Tyrants, Plunderers, but suits not me:
Shall I, the Terror of this sinful town,
Care, if a livery'd Lord or smile or frown?
Who cannot flatter, and detest who can,
Tremble before a noble Serving-man?
O my fair mistress, Truth! shall I quit thee,
For huffing, braggart, puft Nobility?
Thou who since yesterday hast roll'd o'er all
The busy, idle blockheads of the ball,
Hast thou, oh sun! beheld an emptier sort,
Than such as swell this bladder of a court?
Now pox on those who shew a  Court in wax!
It ought to bring all courtiers on their backs:
Such painted puppets, such a varnish'd race
Of hollow gewgaws, only dress and face,
Such waxen noses, stately staring things—
No wonder some folks bow, and think them Kings.
See! where the British youth, engag'd no more
At Fig's  or White's, with felons, or a whore,
Pay their last duty to the Court! and come
All fresh and fragrant, to the drawing-room;
In hues as gay, and odours as divine,
As the fair fields they sold to look so fine.
“That's velvet for a King!” the flatt'rer swears;
'Tis true, for ten days hence 'twill be King Lear's.
Our court may justly to our stage give rules,
That helps it both to fools-coats and to fools.
And why not players strut in courtier's cloaths?
For these are actors too, as well as those:
Wants reach all states; they beg but better drest,
And all is splendid poverty at best.
Painted for sight, and essenc'd for the smell,
Like frigates fraught with spice and cochine'l,
Sail in the Ladies: How each pyrate eyes
So weak a vessel, and so rich a prize!
Top-gallant he, and she in all her trim,
He boarding her, she striking sail to him:
“Dear Countess! you have charms all hearts to hit!
And “sweet Sir Fopling! you have so much wit!
Such wits and beauties are not prais'd for nought,
For both the beauty and the wit are bought.
'Twou'd burst ev'n Heraclitus with the spleen,
To see those anticks, Fopling and Courtin:
The Presence seems, with things so richly odd,
The mosque of Mahound, or some queer Pa-god.
See them survey their limbs by Durer's rules,
Of all beau-kind the best-proportion'd fools!
Adjust their cloaths, and to confession draw
Those venial sins, an atom, or a straw:
But, oh! what terrors must distract the soul
Convicted of that mortal crime, a hole;
Or should one pound of powder less bespread
Those monkey-tails that wag behind their head!
Thus finish'd, and corrected to a hair,
They march, to prate their hour before the fair,
So first to preach a white-glov'd Chaplain goes,
With band of Lilly, and with cheek of Rose,
Sweeter than Sharon, in immac'late trim,
Neatness itself impertinent in him.
Let but the Ladies smile, and they are blest:
Prodigious! how the things protest, protest:
Peace fools, or Gonson will for Papists seize you,
If once he catch you at your Jesu! Jesu!
Nature made ev'ry Fop to plague his brother,
Just as one Beauty mortifies another.
But here's the Captain that will plague them both,
Whose air cries arm! whose very look's an oath:
The Captain's honest, Sirs, and that's enough,
Tho' his soul's bullet, and his body buff:
He spits fore-right; his haughty chest before
Like batt'ring rams, beats open ev'ry door;
And with a face as red, and as awry,
As Herod's hang-dogs in old Tapestry,
Scarecrow to boys, the breeding woman's curse,
Has yet a strange ambition to look worse;
Confounds the civil, keeps the rude in awe,
Jests like a licens'd fool, commands like law.
Frighted I quit the room, but leave it so
As men from Jayls to execution go;
For hung with deadly Sins I see the wall,
And lin'd with Giants, deadlier than 'em all:
Each man an Askapart, of strength to toss
For Quoits, both Temple-bar and Charing-cross.
Scar'd at the grizly forms, I sweat, I fly,
And shake all o'er, like a discover'd spy.
Courts are no match for wits so weak as mine:
Charge them with Heaven's Artill'ry, bold Divine!
From such alone the Great rebukes endure,
Whose satyr's sacred, and whose rage secure:
'Tis mine to wash a few slight stains, but theirs
To deluge sin, and drown a Court in tears.
Howe'er what's now Apocrypha, my Wit,
In time to come, may pass for holy writ.



Thy reliques, Rowe, to this fair tomb we trust,
And sacred, place by Dryden's awful dust:
Beneath a  rude and nameless stone he lies,
To which thy Urn shall guide inquiring eyes.
Peace to thy gentle shade, and endless rest,
Blest in thy Genius, in thy Love too blest!
One grateful woman to thy fame supplies
What a whole thankless land to his denies.



Lac'd in her Cosins new appear'd the Bride,
A Bubble-boy and Tompion at her Side,
And with an Air divine her Colmar ply'd.
Then oh! she cries, what Slaves I round me see?
Here a bright Redcoat, there a smart Toupee.



A manly Form; a bold, yet modest mind;
Sincere, tho' prudent; constant, yet resign'd;
Honour unchang'd; a Principle profest;
Fix'd to one side, but mod'rate to the rest;
An honest Courtier, and a Patriot too;
Just to his Prince, and to his Country true:
All these were join'd in one, yet fail'd to save
The Wise, the Learn'd, the Virtuous, and the Brave;
Lost, like the common Plunder of the Grave!
Ye Few, whom better Genius does inspire,
Exalted Souls, inform'd with purer Fire!
Go now, learn all vast Science can impart;
Go fathom Nature, take the Heights of Art!
Rise higher yet: learn ev'n yourselves to know;
Nay, to yourselves alone that knowledge owe.
Then, when you seem above mankind to soar,
Look on this marble, and be vain no more!



    By the streams that ever flow,
    By the fragrant winds that blow
        O'er th'Elysian flow'rs,
    By those happy souls who dwell
    In yellow meads of Asphodel,
        Or Amaranthine bow'rs,
    By the hero's armed shades,
    Glitt'ring thro' the gloomy glades,
    By the youths that dy'd for love,
    Wand'ring in the myrtle grove,
Restore, restore Eurydice to life;
Oh take the husband, or return the wife!
    He sung, and hell consented
        To hear the Poet's pray'r;
    Stern Proserpine relented,
        And gave him back the fair.
            Thus song could prevail
            O'er death and o'er hell,
A conquest how hard and how glorious?
    Tho' fate had fast bound her
    With Styx nine times round her,
Yet music and love were victorious.



Thus Britain lov'd me; and preserv'd my Fame,
Clear from a Barber's or a Benson's Name.



And life itself can nothing more supply
Than just to plan our projects, and to die.



In Miniature see Nature's Power appear;
Which wings the Sun-born Insects of the Air,
Which frames the Harvest-bug, too small for Sight,
And forms the Bones and Muscles of the Mite!
Here view him stretch'd. The Microscope explains,
That the Blood, circling, flows in human Veins;
See, in the Tube he pants, and sprawling lies,
Stretches his little Hands, and rolls his Eyes!
Smit with his Countrey's Love, I've heard him prate
Of Laws and Manners in his Pigmy State.
By Travel, generous Souls enlarge the Mind,
Which home-bred Prepossession had confin'd;
Yet will he boast of many Regions known,
But still, with partial Love, extol his own.
He talks of Senates, and of Courtly Tribes,
Admires their Ardour, but forgets their Bribes;
Of hireling Lawyers tells the just Decrees,
Applauds their Eloquence, but sinks their Fees.
Yet who his Countrey's partial Love can blame?
'Tis sure some Virtue to conceal its Shame.
The World's the native City of the Wise;
He sees his Britain with a Mother's Eyes;
Softens Defects, and heightens all its Charms,
Calls it the Seat of Empire, Arts and Arms!
Fond of his Hillock Isle, his narrow Mind
Thinks Worth, Wit, Learning, to that Spot confin'd;
Thus Ants, who for a Grain employ their Cares,
Think all the Business of the Earth is theirs.
Thus Honey-combs seem Palaces to Bees;
And Mites imagine all the World a Cheese.
When Pride in such contemptuous Beings lies,
In Beetles, Britons, Bugs and Butterflies,
Shall we, like Reptiles, glory in Conceit?
Humility's the Virtue of the Great.



Nymph of the Grot, these sacred Springs I keep,
And to the Murmur of these Waters sleep;
Ah spare my Slumbers, gently tread the Cave!
And drink in silence, or in silence lave!



A Bishop by his Neighbours hated
Has Cause to wish himself translated.
But why shou'd Hough desire Translation,
Lov'd and esteem'd by all the Nation?
    Yet if it be the old Man's Case,
I'll lay my Life, I know the Place:
'Tis where God sent some that adore him,
And whither Enoch went before him.



Such were the notes thy once-lov'd Poet sung, 

'Till death untimely stop'd his tuneful tongue.
Oh just beheld, and lost! admir'd and mourn'd!
With softest manners, gentlest arts ardorn'd!
Blest in each science, blest in ev'ry strain!
Dear to the Muse! to Harley dear—in vain!
For him, thou oft has bid the world attend,
Fond to forget the statesman in the friend;
For Swift and him, despise the farce of state,
The sober follies of the wise and great;
Dextrous, the craving, fawning croud to quit,
And pleas'd escape from Flattery to Wit.
Absent or dead, still let a friend be dear,
(A sigh the absent claims, the dead a tear)
Recall those nights that clos'd thy toilsome days,
Still hear thy Parnell in his living lays,
Who careless now of Interest, fame, or fate,
Perhaps forgets that Oxford e'er was great;
Or deeming meanest what we greatest call,
Behold thee glorious only in thy Fall.
And sure, if ought below the seats divine
Can touch Immortals, 'tis a soul like thine:
A soul supreme, in each hard instance try'd,
Above all pain, all Passion, and all Pride,
The rage of Pow'r, the blast of publick breath,
The lust of Lucre, and the dread of Death.
In vain to desarts thy retreat is made;
The Muse attends thee to the silent shade:
'Tis hers, the brave man's latest steps to trace,
Rejudge his acts and dignify disgrace.
When Int'rest calls off all her sneaking train,
And all th'oblig'd desert, and all the vain;
She waits, or to the scaffold, or the cell,
When the last ling'ring friend has bid farewel.
Ev'n now, she shades thy Ev'ning walk with bays,
(No hireling she, no prostitute to praise)
Ev'n now, observant of the parting ray,
Eyes the calm sun-set of thy various day,
Thro' Fortune's cloud one truly great can see,
Nor fears to tell, that Mortimer is he.



To thee, we Wretches of the Houyhnhnm Band,
Condemn'd to labour in a barb'rous Land,
Return our Thanks. Accept our humble Lays,
And let each grateful Houyhnhnm neigh thy Praise.
O happy Yahoo, purg'd from human Crimes,
By thy sweet Sojourn in those virtuous Climes,
Where reign our Sires! There, to thy Countrey's Shame,
Reason, you found, and Virtue were the same.
Their Precepts raz'd the Prejudice of Youth,
And even a Yahoo learn'd the Love of Truth.
Art thou the first who did the Coast explore;
Did never Yahoo tread that Ground before?
Yes, Thousands. But in Pity to their Kind,
Or sway'd by Envy, or through Pride of Mind,
They hid their Knowledge of a nobler Race,
Which own'd, would all their Sires and Sons disgrace.
You, like the Samian, visit Lands unknown,
And by their wiser Morals mend your own.
Thus Orpheus travell'd to reform his Kind,
Came back, and tam'd the Brutes he left behind.
You went, you saw, you heard: With Virtue fraught,
Then spread those Morals which the Houyhnhnms taught.
Our Labours here must touch thy gen'rous Heart,
To see us strain before the Coach and Cart;
Compell'd to run each knavish Jockey's Heat!
Subservient to New-market's annual cheat!
With what Reluctance do we Lawyers bear,
To fleece their Countrey Clients twice a Year?
Or manag'd in your Schools, for Fops to ride,
How foam, how fret beneath a Load of Pride!
Yes, we are slaves—but yet, by Reason's Force,
Have learnt to bear Misfortune, like a Horse.
O would the Stars, to ease my Bonds, ordain,
That gentle Gulliver might guide my Rein!
Safe would I bear him to his Journey's End,
For 'tis a Pleasure to support a Friend.
But if my Life be doom'd to serve the Bad,
O! may'st thou never want an easy Pad!



But what avails to lay down rules for sense?
In 's Reign these fruitless lines were writ,
When Ambrose Philips was preferr'd for Wit!



Under this Marble, or under this Sill,
Or under this Turf, or e'en what they will;
Whatever an Heir, or a Friend in his stead,
Or any good Creature shall lay o'er my Head;
Lies He who ne'er car'd, and still cares not a Pin,
What they said, or may say of the Mortal within.
But who living and dying, serene still and free,
Trusts in God, that as well as he was, he shall be.



Once (says an Author, where, I need not say)
Two Trav'lers found an Oyster in their Way;
Both fierce, both hungry, the Dispute grew strong,
While, Scale in Hand, Dame Justice past along.
Before her each with Clamour pleads the Laws,
Explain'd the Matter, and would win the Cause;
Dame Justice, weighing long the doubtful Right,
Takes, opens, swallows it, before their Sight.
The Cause of Strife remov'd so rarely well,
There, take (says Justice) take ye each a Shell.
We thrive at Westminster on Fools like you,
'Twas a fat Oyster—Live in Peace—Adieu.



What pleasing Phrensy steals away my Soul?
    Thro' thy blest Shades (La Source) I seem to rove
I see thy fountains fall, thy waters roll
    And breath the Zephyrs that refresh thy Grove
I hear whatever can delight inspire
Villete's soft Voice and S&supert; John's silver Lyre.



One that should be a Saint,
    and one that's a Sinner,
And one that pays reckning
    but ne'r eats a Dinner,
In short Pope and Gay (as
    you'l see in the margin)
Who saw you in Tower, and since
    your enlarging,
And Parnell who saw you not since
    you did treat him,
Will venture it now—you have
    no Stick to beat him—
Since these for your Jury, good
    and true men, vous-avez;
Pray grant Us Admittance,
    and shut out Miles Davies.



The play full smiles around the dimpled mouth
That happy air of Majesty and Youth.
So would I draw (but oh, 'tis vain to try
My narrow Genius does the power deny)
The Equal Lustre of the Heavenly mind
Where every grace with every Virtue's join'd
Learning not vain, and wisdom not severe
With Greatness easy, and with wit sincere.
With Just Description shew the Soul Divine
And the whole Princesse in my work should shine.



You ask why Roome diverts you with his jokes,
Yet, if he writes, is dull as other folks?
You wonder at it—This Sir is the case,
The jest is lost, unless he prints his Face.



What is Prudery?
'Tis a Beldam,
Seen with Wit and Beauty seldom.
'Tis a fear that starts at shadows.
'Tis, (no, 'tisn't) like Miss Meadows.
'Tis a Virgin hard of Feature,
Old, and void of all good-nature;
Lean and fretful; would seem wise;
Yet plays the fool before she dies.
'Tis an ugly envious Shrew,
That rails at dear Lepell and You.



Once in his Life Mre judges right:
    His Sword and Pen not worth a Straw,
An Author that cou'd never write,
A Gentleman that dares not fight,
    Has but one way to teaze—by Law.
This suit dear Tibbald kindly hatch;
    Thus thou may'st help the sneaking Elf:
And sure a Printer is his Match,
    Who's but a Publisher himself.



In the Lines that you sent, are the Muses and Graces;
You have the Nine in your Wit, and Three in your Faces.



There liv'd in Lombardy, as authors write,
In days of old, a wise and worthy Knight;
Of gentle manners, as of gen'rous race,
Bless'd with much sense, more riches, and some grace.
Yet led astray by Venus' soft delights,
He scarce could rule some idle appetites:
For long ago, let Priests say what they cou'd,
Weak sinful laymen were but flesh and blood.
But in due time, when sixty years were o'er,
He vow'd to lead this vicious life no more;
Whether pure holiness inspir'd his mind,
Or dotage turn'd his brain, is hard to find;
But his high courage prick'd him forth to wed,
And try the pleasures of a lawful bed.
This was his nightly dream, his daily care,
And to the heav'nly pow'rs his constant pray'r,
Once, e'er he dy'd, to taste the blissful life
Of a kind husband and a loving wife.
These thoughts he fortify'd with reasons still,
(For none want reasons to confirm their will.)
Grave authors say, and witty poets sing,
That honest wedlock is a glorious thing:
But depth of judgment most in him appears,
Who wisely weds in his maturer years.
Then let him chuse a damsel young and fair,
To bless his age, and bring a worthy heir;
To sooth his cares, and free from noise and strife
Conduct him gently to the verge of life.
Let sinful batchelors their woes deplore,
Full well they merit all they feel, and more:
Unaw'd by precepts, human or divine,
Like birds and beasts, promiscuously they join:
Nor know to make the present blessing last,
To hope the future, or esteem the past;
But vainly boast the joys they never try'd,
And find divulg'd the secrets they would hide.
The marry'd man may bear his yoke with ease,
Secure at once himself and heav'n to please;
And pass his inoffensive hours away,
In bliss all night, and innocence all day:
Tho' fortune change, his constant spouse remains,
Augments his joys, or mitigates his pains.
But what so pure, which envious tongues will spare?
Some wicked wits have libell'd all the fair.
With matchless impudence they stile a wife
The dear-bought curse, and lawful plague of life;
A bosom-serpent, a domestic evil,
A night-invasion, and a mid-day-devil.
Let not the wise these sland'rous words regard,
But curse the bones of ev'ry lying bard.
All other goods by fortune's hand are giv'n,
A Wife is the peculiar gift of heav'n:
Vain fortune's favours, never at a stay,
Like empty shadows, pass, and glide away;
One solid comfort, our eternal wife,
Abundantly supplies us all our life:
This blessing lasts, (if those who try, say true)
As long as heart can wish—and longer too.
Our grandsire Adam, e'er of Eve possess'd,
Alone, and ev'n in Paradise unbless'd,
With mournful looks the blissful scenes survey'd,
And wander'd in the solitary shade:
The Maker saw, took pity, and bestow'd
Woman, the last, the best reserve of God.
A Wife! ah gentle deities, can he
That has a wife, e'er feel adversity?
Would men but follow what the sex advise,
All things would prosper, all the world grow wise.
'Twas by Rebecca's aid that Jacob won
His father's blessing from an elder son:
Abusive Nabal ow'd his forfeit life
To the wise conduct of a prudent wife:
Heroic Judith, as old Hebrews show,
Preserv'd the Jews, and slew th'Assyrian foe:
At Hester's suit, the persecuting sword
Was sheath'd, and Israel liv'd to bless the Lord.
These weighty motives, January the sage
Maturely ponder'd in his riper age;
And charm'd with virtuous joys, and sober life,
Would try that christian comfort, call'd a wife.
His friends were summon'd on a point so nice,
To pass their judgment, and to give advice;
But fix'd before, and well resolv'd was he;
(As men that ask advice are wont to be.)
My friends, he cry'd, (and cast a mournful look
Around the room, and sigh'd before he spoke:)
Beneath the weight of threescore years I bend,
And worn with cares, am hast'ning to my end;
How I have liv'd, alas! you know too well,
In worldly follies, which I blush to tell;
But gracious heav'n has ope'd my eyes at last,
With due regret I view my vices past,
And as the precept of the Church decrees,
Will take a wife, and live in holy ease.
But since by counsel all things should be done,
And many heads are wiser still than one;
Chuse you for me, who best shall be content
When my desire's approv'd by your consent.
One caution yet is needful to be told,
To guide your choice; this wife must not be old:
There goes a saying, and 'twas shrewdly said,
Old fish at table, but young flesh in bed.
My soul abhors the tastless, dry embrace
Of a stale virgin with a winter face;
In that cold season Love but treats his guest
With bean-straw, and tough forage at the best.
No crafty widows shall approach my bed;
Those are too wise for batchelors to wed;
As subtle clerks by many schools are made,
Twice-marry'd dames are mistresses o'th' trade:
But young and tender virgins, rul'd with ease,
We form like wax, and mold them as we please.
Conceive me, Sirs, nor take my sense amiss;
'Tis what concerns my soul's eternal bliss;
Since if I found no pleasure in my spouse,
As flesh is frail, and who (God help me) knows?
Then should I live in leud adultery,
And sink downright to Satan when I die.
Or were I curs'd with an unfruitful bed,
The righteous end were lost, for which I wed;
To raise up seed to bless the pow'rs above,
And not for pleasure only, or for love.
Think not I doat; 'tis time to take a wife,
When vig'rous blood forbids a chaster life:
Those that are blest with store of grace divine,
May live like saints, by heav'ns consent, and mine.
And since I speak of wedlock, let me say,
(As, thank my stars, in modest truth I may)
My limbs are active, still I'm sound at heart,
And a new vigour springs in ev'ry part.
Think not my virtue lost, tho' time has shed
These rev'rend honours on my hoary head;
Thus trees are crown'd with blossoms white as snow,
The vital sap then rising from below:
Old as I am, my lusty limbs appear
Like winter greens, that flourish all the year.
Now, Sirs, you know to what I stand inclin'd,
Let ev'ry friend with freedom speak his mind.
He said; the rest in diff'rent parts divide,
The knotty point was urg'd on either side;
Marriage, the theme on which they all declaim'd,
Some prais'd with wit, and some with reason blam'd.
Till, what with proofs, objections, and replies,
Each wondrous positive, and wondrous wise,
There fell between his brothers a debate,
Placebo this was call'd, and Justin that.
First to the Knight Placebo thus begun,
(Mild were his looks, and pleasing was his tone)
Such prudence, Sir, in all your words appears,
As plainly proves, experience dwells with years!
Yet you pursue sage Solomon's advice,
To work by counsel when affairs are nice:
But, with the Wiseman's leave, I must protest,
So may my soul arrive at ease and rest,
As still I hold your own advice the best.
Sir, I have liv'd a Courtier all my days,
And study'd men, their manners, and their ways;
And have observ'd this useful maxim still,
To let my betters always have their will.
Nay, if my Lord affirm'd that black was white,
My word was this, Your honour's in the right.
Th'assuming Wit, who deems himself so wise
As his mistaken patron to advise,
Let him not dare to vent his dang'rous thought;
A noble fool was never in a fault.
This, Sir, affects not you, whose ev'ry word
Is weigh'd with judgment, and befits a Lord:
Your will is mine; and is (I will maintain)
Pleasing to God, and should be so to Man;
At least, your courage all the world must praise,
Who dare to wed in your declining days.
Indulge the vigour of your mounting blood,
And let grey fools be indolently good,
Who past all pleasure, damn the joys of sense,
With rev'rend dulness, and grave impotence.
Justin, who silent sate, and heard the man,
Thus, with a philosophic frown, began.
A heathen author, of the first degree,
(Who, tho' not Faith, had Sense as well as we)
Bids us be certain our concerns to trust
To those of gen'rous principles, and just.
The venture's greater, I'll presume to say,
To give your person, than your goods away:
And therefore, Sir, as you regard your rest,
First learn your Lady's qualities at least:
Whether she's chaste or rampant, proud or civil;
Meek as a saint, or haughty as the devil;
Whether an easy, fond, familiar fool,
Or such a wit as no man e'er can rule?
'Tis true, perfection none must hope to find
In all this world, much less in woman-kind;
But if her virtues prove the larger share,
Bless the kind fates, and think your fortune rare.
Ah, gentle Sir, take warning of a friend,
Who knows too well the state you thus commend;
And, spight of all its praises, must declare,
All he can find is bondage, cost, and care.
Heav'n knows, I shed full many a private tear,
And sigh in silence, lest the world should hear:
While all my friends applaud my blissful life,
And swear no mortal's happier in a wife;
Demure and chaste as any vestal Nun,
The meekest creature that beholds the sun!
But, by the immortal pow'rs, I feel the pain,
And he that smarts has reason to complain.
Do what you list, for me; you must be sage,
And cautious sure; for wisdom is in Age:
But, at these years, to venture on the fair!
By him, who made the ocean, earth, and air,
To please a wife, when her occasions call,
Would busy the most vig'rous of us all.
And trust me, Sir, the chastest you can chuse
Will ask observance, and exact her dues.
If what I speak my noble Lord offend,
My tedious sermon here is at an end.
'Tis well, 'tis wond'rous well, the Knight replies,
Most worthy kinsman, faith you're mighty wise!
We, Sirs, are fools; and must resign the cause
To heath'nish authors, proverbs, and old saws.
He spoke with scorn, and turn'd another way;—
What does my friend, my dear Placebo say?
I say, quoth he, by heav'n the man's to blame,
To slander wives, and wedlock's holy name.
At this, the council rose, without delay;
Each, in his own opinion, went his way;
With full consent, that all disputes appeas'd,
The Knight should marry, when and where he pleas'd.
Who now but January exults with joy?
The charms of wedlock all his soul employ:
Each nymph by turns his wav'ring mind possest,
And reign'd the short-liv'd tyrant of his breast;
While fancy pictur'd ev'ry lively part,
And each bright image wander'd o'er his heart.
Thus, in some publick Forum fix'd on high,
A Mirrour shows the figures moving by;
Still one by one, in swift succession, pass
The gliding shadows o'er the polish'd glass.
This Lady's charms the nicest cou'd not blame,
But vile suspicions had aspers'd her fame;
That was with sense, but not with virtue, blest;
And one had grace, that wanted all the rest.
Thus doubting long what nymph he shou'd obey,
He fix'd at last upon the youthful May.
Her faults he knew not, Love is always blind,
But ev'ry charm revolv'd within his mind:
Her tender age, her form divinely fair,
Her easy motion, her attractive air,
Her sweet behaviour, her enchanting face,
Her moving softness, and majestic grace.
Much in his prudence did our Knight rejoice,
And thought no mortal could dispute this choice:
Once more in haste he summon'd ev'ry friend,
And told them all, their pains were at an end.
Heav'n, that (said he) inspir'd me first to wed,
Provides a consort worthy of my bed;
Let none oppose th'election, since on this
Depends my quiet, and my future bliss.
A dame there is, the darling of my eyes,
Young, beauteous, artless, innocent and wise;
Chaste, tho' not rich, and tho' not nobly born,
Of honest parents, and may serve my turn.
Her will I wed: if gracious heav'n so please;
To pass my age in sanctity and ease:
And thank the pow'rs, I may possess alone
The lovely prize, and share my bliss with none!
If you, my friends, this virgin can procure,
My joys are full, my happiness is sure.
One only doubt remains; Full oft' I've heard,
By casuists grave, and deep divines averr'd;
That 'tis too much for human race to know
The bliss of heav'n above, and earth below.
Now should the nuptial pleasures prove so great,
To match the blessings of the future state,
Those endless joys were ill exchang'd for these;
Then clear this doubt, and set my mind at ease.
This Justin heard, nor could his spleen controul,
Touch'd to the quick, and tickled at the soul.
Sir Knight, he cry'd, if this be all you dread,
Heav'n put it past your doubt, whene'er you wed;
And to my fervent pray'rs so far consent,
That e'er the rites are o'er, you may repent!
Good heav'n no doubt the nuptial state approves,
Since it chastises still what best it loves.
Then be not, Sir, abandon'd to despair;
Seek, and perhaps you'll find, among the fair,
One, that may do your business to a hair;
Not ev'n in wish, your happiness delay,
But prove the scourge to lash you on your way:
Then to the skies your mounting soul shall go,
Swift, as an arrow soaring from the bow!
Provided still, you moderate your joy,
Nor in your pleasures all your might enjoy,
Let reason's rule your strong desires abate:
Nor please too lavishly your gentle mate.
Old wives there are, of judgment most acute,
Who solve these questions beyond all dispute;
Consult with those, and be of better chear;
Marry, do penance, and dismiss your fear.
So said, they rose, nor more the work delay'd;
The match was offer'd, the proposals made.
The parents, you may think, would soon comply;
The Old have int'rest ever in their eye.
Nor was it hard to move the Lady's mind,
When fortune favours, still the Fair are kind.
I pass each previous settlement and deed,
Too long for me to write, or you to read;
Nor will with quaint impertinence display
The pomp, the pageantry, the proud array.
The time approach'd, to Church the parties went,
At once with carnal and devout intent:
Forth came the Priest, and bade th'obedient wife
Like Sarah or Rebecca, lead her life:
Then pray'd the pow'rs the fruitful bed to bless,
And made all sure enough with holiness.
And now the palace-gates are open'd wide,
The guests appear in order, side by side,
And plac'd in state, the bridegroom and the bride.
The breathing flute's soft notes are heard around,
And the shrill trumpets mix their silver sound;
The vaulted roofs with echoing music ring,
These touch the vocal stops, and those the trembling string.
Not thus Amphion tun'd the warbling lyre,
Nor Joab the sounding clarion could inspire,
Nor fierce Theodamas, whose sprightly strain
Cou'd swell the soul to rage, and fire the martial train.
Bacchus himself, the nuptial feast to grace,
(So Poets sing) was present on the place:
And lovely Venus, Goddess of delight,
Shook high her flaming torch in open sight,
And danc'd around, and smil'd on ev'ry Knight:
Pleas'd her best servant wou'd his courage try,
No less in wedlock, than in liberty.
Full many an age old Hymen had not spy'd
So kind a bridegroom, or so bright a bride.
Ye bards! renown'd among the tuneful throng
For gentle lays, and joyous nuptial song;
Think not your softest numbers can display
The matchless glories of this blissful day:
The joys are such, as far transcend your rage,
When tender youth has wedded stooping age.
The beauteous dame sate smiling at the board,
And darted am'rous glances at her Lord.
Not Hester's self, whose charms the Hebrews sing,
E'er look'd so lovely on her Persian King:
Bright as the rising sun, in summer's day,
And fresh and blooming as the month of May!
The joyful Knight survey'd her by his side,
Nor envy'd Paris with the Spartan bride:
Still as his mind revolv'd with vast delight
Th'entrancing raptures of th'approaching night:
Restless he sate, invoking ev'ry pow'r,
To speed his bliss, and haste the happy hour.
Meantime the vig'rous dancers beat the ground,
And songs were sung, and flowing bowls went round,
With od'rous spices they perfum'd the place,
And mirth and pleasure shone in ev'ry face.
Damian alone, of all the menial train,
Sad in the midst of triumphs, sigh'd for pain;
Damian alone, the Knight's obsequious squire,
Consum'd at heart, and fed a secret fire.
His lovely mistress all his soul possess'd,
He look'd, he languish'd, and cou'd take no rest:
His task perform'd, he sadly went his way,
Fell on his bed, and loath'd the light of day:
There let him lie; till his relenting dame
Weep in her turn, and waste in equal flame.
The weary sun, as learned Poets write,
Forsook th'horizon, and roll'd down the light;
While glitt'ring stars his absent beams supply,
And night's dark mantle overspread the sky.
Then rose the guests; and as the time requir'd,
Each paid his thanks, and decently retir'd.
The foe once gone, our Knight prepar'd t'undress,
So keen he was, and eager to possess:
But first thought fit th'assistance to receive,
Which grave Physicians scruple not to give;
Satyrion near, with hot Eringo's stood,
Cantharides, to fire the lazy blood,
Whose use old Bards describe in luscious rhymes,
And Critics learn'd explain to modern times.
By this the sheets were spread, the bride undress'd,
The room was sprinkled, and the bed was bless'd.
What next ensu'd beseems not me to say;
'Tis sung, he labour'd till the dawning day,
Then briskly sprung from bed, with heart so light,
As all were nothing he had done by night;
And sipp'd his cordial as he sate upright:
He kiss'd his balmy spouse with wanton play,
And feebly sung a lusty roundelay:
Then on the couch his weary limbs he cast;
For every labour must have rest at last.
But anxious cares the pensive Squire oppress'd,
Sleep fled his eyes, and peace forsook his breast;
The raging flames that in his bosom dwell,
He wanted art to hide, and means to tell.
Yet hoping time th'occasion might betray,
Compos'd a sonnet to the lovely May;
Which writ and folded with the nicest art,
He wrapp'd in silk, and laid upon his heart.
When now the fourth revolving day was run,
('Twas June, and Cancer had receiv'd the sun)
Forth from her chamber came the beauteous bride;
The good old knight mov'd slowly by her side.
High Mass was sung; they feasted in the hall;
The servants round stood ready at their call.
The squire alone was absent from the board,
And much his sickness griev'd his worthy Lord,
Who pray'd his spouse attended by her train,
To visit Damian, and divert his pain.
Th'obliging dames obey'd with one consent;
They left the hall, and to his lodging went.
The female tribe surround him as he lay,
And close beside him sate the gentle May:
Where, as she try'd his pulse, he softly drew
A speaking sigh, and cast a mournful view;
Then gave his bill, and brib'd the pow'rs divine
With secret vows, to favour his design.
Who studies now but discontented May?
On her soft couch uneasily she lay:
The lumpish husband snoar'd away the night,
Till coughs awak'd him near the morning light.
What then he did, I not presume to tell,
Nor if she thought herself in heav'n or hell:
Honest and dull, in nuptial bed they lay,
Till the bell toll'd, and all arose to pray.
Were it by forceful destiny decreed,
Or did from chance, or nature's pow'r proceed;
Or that some star, with aspect kind to love,
Shed its selectest influence from above;
Whatever was the cause, the tender dame
Felt the first motions of an infant flame;
Receiv'd the impressions of the love-sick squire
And wasted in the soft, infectious fire.
Ye fair, draw near, let May's example move
Your gentle minds to pity those who love!
Had some fierce tyrant in her stead been found,
The poor adorer sure had hang'd, or drown'd:
But she, your sex's mirrour, free from pride,
Was much too meek to prove a homicide.
But to my tale: Some Sages have defin'd
Pleasure the sov'reign bliss of human-kind:
Our Knight (who study'd much, we may suppose)
Deriv'd this high philosophy from those;
For, like a Prince, he bore the vast expence
Of lavish pomp and proud magnificence:
His house was stately, his retinue gay,
Large was his train, and gorgeous his array.
His spacious garden made to yield to none,
Was compass'd round with walls of solid stone;
Priapus could not half describe the grace
(Tho' God of gardens) of this charming place:
A place to tire the rambling wits of France
In long descriptions, and exceed Romance;
Enough to shame the gentlest bard that sings
Of painted meadows, and of purling springs.
Full in the centre of the flow'ry ground,
A crystal fountain spread its streams around,
The fruitful banks with verdant laurels crown'd:
About this spring (if ancient fame say true)
The dapper Elves their moon-light sports pursue:
Their pigmy king, and little fairy queen,
In circling dances gambol'd on the green,
While tuneful sprites a merry consort made,
And airy music warbled thro' the shade.
Hither the noble knight would oft' repair,
(His scene of pleasure, and peculiar care)
For this he held it dear, and always bore
The silver key that lock'd the garden-door.
To this sweet place, in summer's sultry heat,
He us'd from noise and bus'ness to retreat;
And here in dalliance spend the live-long day,
Solus cum sola, with his sprightly May.
For whate'er work was undischarg'd a-bed,
The duteous knight in this fair garden sped.
But ah! what mortal lives of bliss secure,
How short a space our worldly joys endure?
O Fortune, fair, like all thy treach'rous kind,
But faithless still, and wav'ring as the wind!
O painted monster, form'd mankind to cheat,
With pleasing poison, and with soft deceit!
This rich, this am'rous, venerable knight,
Amidst his ease, his solace, and delight,
Struck blind by thee, resigns his days to grief,
And calls on death, the wretch's last relief.
The rage of jealousy then seiz'd his mind,
For much he fear'd the faith of woman-kind.
His wife not suffer'd from his side to stray,
Was captive kept, he watch'd her night and day,
Abridg'd her pleasures, and confin'd her sway.
Full oft' in tears did hapless May complain,
And sigh'd full oft'; but sigh'd and wept in vain;
She look'd on Damian with a lover's eye,
For oh, 'twas fix'd; she must possess or die!
Nor less impatience vex'd her am'rous squire,
Wild with delay, and burning with desire.
Watch'd as she was, yet could he not refrain
By secret writing to disclose his pain;
The dame by signs reveal'd her kind intent,
Till both were conscious what each other meant.
Ah, gentle knight, what would thy eyes avail,
Tho' they could see as far as ships can sail?
'Tis better sure, when blind, deceiv'd to be,
Than be deluded when a man can see!
Argus himself, so cautious and so wise,
Was over-watch'd, for all his hundred eyes:
So many an honest husband may, 'tis known,
Who, wisely, never thinks the case his own.
The dame at last, by diligence and care,
Procur'd the key her knight was wont to bear;
She took the wards in wax before the fire,
And gave th'impression to the trusty squire.
By means of this, some wonder shall appear,
Which in due place and season, you may hear.
Well sung sweet Ovid in the days of yore,
What slight is that, which Love will not explore?
And Pyramus and Thisbe plainly show
The feats true lovers, when they list, can do:
Tho' watch'd and captive, yet in spite of all,
They found the art of kissing thro' a wall.
But now no longer from our tale to stray;
It happ'd, that once upon a summer's day,
Our rev'rend knight was urg'd to am'rous play:
He rais'd his spouse, e'er Matin-bell was rung,
And thus his morning canticle he sung.
Awake, my love, disclose thy radiant eyes;
Arise, my wife, my beauteous Lady, rise!
Hear how the doves with pensive notes complain,
And in soft murmurs tell the trees their pain;
The winter's past; the clouds and tempests fly;
The sun adorns the fields, and brightens all the sky.
Fair without spot, whose ev'ry charming part
My bosom wounds, and captivates my heart;
Come, and in mutual pleasures let's engage,
Joy of my life, and comfort of my age.
This heard, to Damian strait a sign she made,
To haste before; the gentle squire obey'd:
Secret, and undescry'd, he took his way,
And ambush'd close behind an arbour lay.
It was not long e'er January came,
And hand in hand with him his lovely dame;
Blind as he was, not doubting all was sure,
He turn'd the key, and made the gate secure.
Here let us walk, he said, observ'd by none,
Conscious of pleasures to the world unknown:
So may my soul have joy, as thou, my wife,
Art far the dearest solace of my life;
And rather wou'd I chuse, by heav'n above,
To die this instant, than to lose thy love.
Reflect what truth was in my passion shown,
When un-endow'd, I took thee for my own,
And sought no treasure but thy heart alone.
Old as I am, and now depriv'd of sight,
While thou art faithful to thy own true knight,
Nor age, nor blindness, rob me of delight.
Each other loss with patience I can bear,
The loss of thee is what I only fear.
Consider then, my Lady, and my wife,
The solid comforts of a virtuous life.
As first, the love of Christ himself you gain;
Next, your own honour undefil'd maintain;
And lastly, that which sure your mind must move,
My whole estate shall gratify your love:
Make your own terms, and e'er to-morrow's sun
Displays his light, by heav'n it shall be done.
I seal the contract with a holy kiss,
And will perform, by this—my dear, and this.—
Have comfort, spouse, nor think thy Lord unkind;
'Tis love, not jealousy that fires my mind.
For when thy charms my sober thoughts engage,
And join'd to them, my own unequal age;
From thy dear side I have no pow'r to part,
Such secret transports warm my melting heart.
For who that once possess'd those heav'nly charms,
Cou'd live one moment, absent from thy arms?
He ceas'd, and May with modest grace reply'd;
(Weak was her voice, as while she spoke she cry'd:)
Heav'n knows, (with that, a tender sigh she drew)
I have a soul to save as well as you;
And, what no less you to my charge commend,
My dearest honour, will to death defend.
To you in holy Church I gave my hand,
And join'd my heart in wedlock's sacred band:
Yet after this, if you distrust my care,
Then hear, my Lord, and witness what I swear:
First may the yawning earth her bosom rend,
And let me hence to hell alive descend;
Or die the death I dread no less than hell,
Sow'd in a sack, and plung'd into a well:
E'er I my fame by one leud act disgrace,
Or once renounce the honour of my race.
For know, sir knight, of gentle blood I came,
I loath a whore, and startle at the name.
But jealous men on their own crimes reflect,
And learn from thence their Ladies to suspect:
Else why these needless cautions, Sir, to me?
These doubts and fears of female constancy?
This chime still rings in ev'ry Lady's ear,
The only strain a wife must hope to hear.
Thus while she spoke, a sidelong glance she cast,
Where Damian kneeling, worshipp'd as she past.
She saw him watch the motions of her eye,
And singled out a Pear-tree planted nigh:
'Twas charg'd with fruit that made a goodly show,
And hung with dangling pears was ev'ry bough.
Thither th'obsequious squire address'd his pace,
And climbing, in the summit took his place;
The Knight and Lady walk'd beneath in view,
Where let us leave them, and our tale pursue.
'Twas now the season when the glorious sun
His heav'nly progress thro' the Twins had run;
And Jove, exalted, his mild influence yields,
To glad the glebe, and paint the flow'ry fields.
Clear was the day, and Phœbus rising bright,
Had streak'd the azure firmament with light;
He pierc'd the glitt'ring clouds with golden streams,
And warm'd the womb of earth with genial beams.
It so befel, in that fair morning-tide,
The Fairies sported on the garden's side,
And, in the midst, their Monarch and his bride.
So featly tripp'd the lightfoot Ladies round,
The knights so nimbly o'er the greensword bound,
That scarce they bent the flow'rs, or touch'd the ground.
The dances ended, all the fairy train
For pinks and daisies search'd the flow'ry plain;
While on a bank reclin'd of rising green,
Thus, with a frown, the King bespoke his Queen.
'Tis too apparent, argue what you can,
The treachery you women use to man:
A thousand authors have this truth made out,
And sad experience leaves no room for doubt.
Heav'n rest thy spirit, noble Solomon,
A wiser monarch never saw the sun:
All wealth, all honours, the supreme degree
Of earthly bliss, was well bestow'd on thee!
For sagely hast thou said; Of all mankind,
One only just, and righteous, hope to find:
But should'st thou search the spacious world around,
Yet one good woman is not to be found.
Thus says the King who knew your wickedness;
The son of Sirach testifies no less.
So may some wildfire on your bodies fall,
Or some devouring plague consume you all;
As well you view the Leacher in the tree,
And well this honourable Knight you see:
But since he's blind and old, (a helpless case)
His squire shall cuckold him before your face.
Now by my own dread majesty I swear,
And by this awful sceptre which I bear,
No impious wretch shall 'scape unpunish'd long,
That in my presence offers such a wrong.
I will this instant undeceive the knight,
And, in the very act, restore his sight:
And set the strumpet here in open view,
A warning to these Ladies, and to you,
And all the faithless sex, for ever to be true.
And will you so, reply'd the Queen indeed?
Now, by my mother's soul, it is decreed,
She shall not want an answer at her need.
For her, and for her daughters, I'll engage,
And all the sex in each succeeding age;
Art shall be theirs to varnish an offence,
And fortify their crimes with confidence.
Nay, were they taken in a strict embrace,
Seen with both eyes, and pinion'd on the place;
All they shall need is to protest, and swear,
Breath a soft sigh, and drop a tender tear;
Till their wise husbands, gull'd by arts like these,
Grow gentle, tractable, and tame as geese.
What tho' this sland'rous Jew, this Solomon,
Call'd women fools, and knew full many a one?
The wiser wits of later times declare,
How constant, chaste, and virtuous, women are:
Witness the martyrs, who resign'd their breath,
Serene in torments, unconcern'd in death;
And witness next what Roman authors tell,
How Arria, Portia, and Lucretia fell.
But since the sacred leaves to all are free,
And men interpret texts, why shou'd not we?
By this no more was meant, than to have shown,
That sov'reign goodness dwells in Him alone
Who only Is, and is but only One.
But grant the worst; shall women then be weigh'd
By ev'ry word that Solomon has said?
What tho' this King (as ancient story boasts)
Built a fair temple to the Lord of hosts;
He ceas'd at last his Maker to adore,
And did as much for Idol-gods, or more.
Beware what lavish praises you confer
On a rank leacher and idolater;
Whose reign indulgent God, says holy writ,
Did but for David's righteous sake permit;
David, the monarch after heav'ns own mind,
Who lov'd our sex, and honour'd all our kind.
Well, I'm a woman, and as such must speak;
Silence would swell me, and my heart would break.
Know then, I scorn your dull authorities,
Your idle wits, and all their learned lyes.
By heav'n, those authors are our sex's foes,
Whom, in our right, I must, and will oppose.
Nay (quoth the King) dear Madam, be not wroth:
I yield it up; but since I gave my oath,
That this much-injur'd knight again shou'd see;
It must be done—I am a King, said he,
And one, whose faith has ever sacred been.
And so has mine, (she said)—I am a Queen;
Her answer she shall have, I undertake;
And thus an end of all dispute I make:
Try when you list; and you shall find, my Lord,
It is not in our sex to break our word.
We leave them here in this heroick strain,
And to the knight our story turns again;
Who in the garden, with his lovely May,
Sung merrier than the Cuckow or the Jay:
This was his song; “Oh kind and constant be,
“Constant and kind I'll ever prove to thee.
Thus singing as he went, at last he drew
By easy steps to where the Peartree grew:
The longing dame look'd up, and spy'd her Love
Full fairly perch'd among the boughs above.
She stopp'd, and sighing: Oh good Gods, she cry'd,
What pangs, what sudden shoots distend my side?
O for that tempting fruit, so fresh, so green;
Help, for the love of heav'ns immortal Queen!
Help, dearest lord, and save at once the life
Of thy poor infant, and thy longing wife!
Sore sigh'd the knight to hear his Lady's cry,
But cou'd not climb, and had no servant nigh:
Old as he was, and void of eye-sight too,
What cou'd, alas! the helpless husband do?
And must I languish then, she said, and die,
Yet view the lovely fruit before my eye?
At least, kind Sir, for charity's sweet sake,
Vouchsafe the trunk between your arms to take;
Then from your back I might ascend the tree;
Do you but stoop, and leave the rest to me.
With all my soul, he thus reply'd again,
I'd spend my dearest blood to ease thy pain;
With that, his back against the trunk he bent,
She seiz'd a twig, and up the tree she went.
Now prove your patience, gentle Ladies all!
Nor let on me your heavy anger fall:
'Tis truth I tell, tho' not in phrase refin'd;
Tho' blunt my tale, yet honest is my mind.
What feats the Lady in the tree might do,
I pass, as gambols never known to you;
But sure it was a merrier fit, she swore,
Than in her life she ever felt before.
In that nice moment, lo! the wond'ring knight
Look'd out, and stood restor'd to sudden sight.
Strait on the tree his eager eyes he bent,
As one whose thoughts were on his spouse intent;
But when he saw his bosom-wife so dress'd,
His rage was such as cannot be express'd:
Not frantic mothers when their infants die,
With louder clamours rend the vaulted sky:
He cry'd, he roar'd, he storm'd, he tore his hair;
Death! hell! and furies! what dost thou do there?
What ails my lord? the trembling dame reply'd;
I thought your patience had been better try'd:
Is this your love, ungrateful and unkind,
This my reward, for having cur'd the blind?
Why was I taught to make my husband see,
By struggling with a Man upon a Tree?
Did I, for this, the pow'r of magic prove?
Unhappy wife, whose crime was too much love!
If this be struggling, by this holy light,
'Tis struggling with a vengeance, (quoth the knight)
So heav'n preserve the sight it has restor'd,
As with these eyes I plainly saw thee whor'd;
Whor'd by my slave—perfidious wretch! may hell
As surely seize thee, as I saw too well.
Guard me, good angels! cry'd the gentle May,
Pray heav'n, this magic work the proper way!
Alas, my love! 'tis certain, could you see,
You ne'er had us'd these killing words to me:
So help me fates, as 'tis no perfect sight,
But some faint glimm'ring of a doubtful light.
What I have said, (quoth he) I must maintain,
For by th'immortal pow'rs, it seem'd too plain—
By all those pow'rs, some frenzy seiz'd your mind,
(Reply'd the dame) are these the thanks I find?
Wretch that I am, that e'er I was so kind!
She said; a rising sigh express'd her woe,
The ready tears apace began to flow,
And as they fell, she wip'd from either eye
The drops, (for women, when they list, can cry.)
The knight was touch'd, and in his looks appear'd
Signs of remorse, while thus his spouse he chear'd.
Madam, 'tis past, and my short anger o'er;
Come down, and vex your tender heart no more:
Excuse me, dear, if aught amiss was said,
For, on my soul, amends shall soon be made:
Let my repentance your forgiveness draw,
By heav'n, I swore but what I thought I saw.
Ah my lov'd lord! 'twas much unkind (she cry'd)
On bare suspicion thus to treat your bride.
But till your sight's establish'd, for a while,
Imperfect objects may your sense beguile.
Thus when from sleep we first our eyes display,
The balls are wounded with the piercing ray,
And dusky vapours rise, and intercept the day.
So just recov'ring from the shades of night,
Your swimming eyes are drunk with sudden light,
Strange phantoms dance around, and skim before your sight.
Then, Sir, be cautious, nor too rashly deem;
Heav'n knows how seldom things are what they seem!
Consult your reason, and you soon shall find
'Twas you were jealous, not your wife unkind:
Jove ne'er spoke Oracle more true than this,
None judge so wrong as those who think amiss.
With that, she leap'd into her Lord's embrace,
With well-dissembled virtue in her face.
He hugg'd her close, and kiss'd her o'er and o'er,
Disturb'd with doubts and jealousies no more:
Both, pleas'd and bless'd, renew'd their mutual vows,
A fruitful wife, and a believing spouse.
Thus ends our tale, whose moral next to make,
Let all wise husbands hence example take;
And pray, to crown the pleasure of their lives,
To be so well deluded by their wives.



Burnet and Ducket, friends in spite,
    Came hissing forth in verse;
Both were so forward, each would write,
    So dull, each hung an A
Thus Amphisbœna (I have read)
    At either end assails;
None knows which leads, or which is led,
    For both Heads are but Tails.



With no poetic ardors fir'd,
    I press the bed where Wilmot lay;
That here he lov'd, or here expir'd,
    Begets no numbers, grave or gay.
Beneath thy roof, Argyle, are bred
    Such thoughts as prompt the brave to lie
Stretch'd forth in honour's nobler bed,
    Beneath a nobler roof,—the sky.



Friend! for your Epitaphs I'm griev'd,
    Where still so much is said,
One half will never be believ'd,
    The other never read.



Yes, I beheld th'Athenian Queen
    Descend in all her sober charms;
“And take (she said, and smil'd serene)
    “Take at this hand celestial arms:
“Secure the radiant weapons wield;
    “This golden lance shall guard Desert,
“And if a Vice dares keep the field,
    “This steel shall stab it to the heart.”
Aw'd, on my bended knees I fell,
    Receiv'd the weapons of the sky;
And dipt them in the sable Well,
    The fount of Fame or Infamy.
“What well? what weapon? (Flavia cries)
    “A standish, steel and golden pen;
“It came from Bertrand's, not the skies;
    “I gave it you to write again.
“But, Friend, take heed whom you attack;
    “You'll bring a House (I mean of Peers)
“Red, Blue, and Green, nay white and black,
    “L and all about your ears.
“You'd write as smooth again on glass,
    “And run, on ivory, so glib,
“As not to stick at fool or ass,
    “Nor stop at Flattery or Fib.
“Athenian Queen! and sober charms!
    “I tell ye, fool, there's nothing in't:
“'Tis Venus, Venus gives these arms;
    “In Dryden's Virgil see the print.
“Come, if you'll be a quiet soul,
    “That dares tell neither Truth nor Lies,
“I'll list you in the harmless roll
    “Of those that sing of these poor eyes.”



Let Clarke make half his life the poor's support,
But let him give the other half to court.



Mre always smiles whenever he recites;
He smiles (you think) approving what he writes;
And yet in this no Vanity is shown;
A modest man may like what's not his own.



Here lies Lord Coningsby—be civil,
The rest God knows—so does the Devil.



Here Francis Chs lies—Be civil!
The rest God knows—perhaps the Devil.



The Sun descending, the Phæacian train
Spread their broad sails, and launch into the main:
At once they bend, and strike their equal oars,
And leave the sinking hills, and less'ning shores.
While on the deck the Chief in silence lies,
And pleasing slumbers steal upon his eyes.
As fiery coursers in the rapid race,
Urg'd by fierce drivers thro' the dusty space,
Toss their high heads, and scour along the plain;
So mounts the bounding vessel o'er the main:
Back to the stern the parted billows flow,
And the black ocean foams and roars below.
Thus with spread sails the winged gally flies;
Less swift, an eagle cuts the liquid skies:
Divine Ulysses was her sacred load,
A man, in wisdom equal to a God.
Much danger long, and mighty toils he bore,
In storms by sea, and combats on the shore:
All which soft sleep now banish'd from his breast;
Wrapt in a pleasing, deep, and death-like rest.
But when the morning star with early ray
Flam'd in the front of heav'n, and promis'd day,
Like distant clouds the mariner descries
Fair Ithaca's emerging hills arise.
Far from the town, a spacious port appears,
Sacred to Phorcys' pow'r, whose name it bears;
Two craggy rocks, projecting to the main,
The roaring winds tempestuous rage restrain;
Within, the waves in softer murmurs glide,
And ships secure without their haulsers ride.
High at the head a branching olive grows,
And crowns the pointed cliffs with shady boughs.
Beneath, a gloomy Grotto's cool recess,
Delights the Nereids of the neighb'ring seas;
Where bowls and urns were form'd of living stone,
And massy beams in native marble shone,
On which the labours of the nymphs were roll'd,
Their webs divine of purple mix'd with gold.
Within the cave, the clustring bees attend
Their waxen works, or from the roof depend.
Perpetual waters o'er the pavement glide;
Two marble doors unfold on either side;
Sacred the south, by which the Gods descend,
But mortals enter at the northern end.
Thither they bent, and haul'd their ship to land,
(The crooked keel divides the yellow sand)
Ulysses sleeping, on his couch they bore,
And gently plac'd him on the rocky shore:
His treasures next, Alcinous' gifts, they laid
In the wild olive's unfrequented shade;
Secure from theft: then launch'd the bark again,
And tugg'd their oars, and measur'd back the main.
Mean while Ulysses in his country lay,
Releas'd from sleep; and round him might survey
The solitary shore, and rowling sea.
Yet had his mind, thro' tedious absence, lost
The dear remembrance of his native coast;
Besides Minerva, to secure her care,
Diffus'd around a veil of thicken'd air:
For so the Gods ordain'd, to keep unseen
His royal person from his friends and Queen,
Till the proud suitors, for their crimes, afford
An ample vengeance to her injur'd Lord.
Now all the land another prospect bore,
Another port appear'd, another shore;
And long-continu'd ways, and winding floods,
And unknown mountains, crown'd with unknown woods.
Pensive and slow, with sudden grief opprest,
The King arose, and beat his careful breast,
Cast a long look o'er all the coast and main,
And sought around his native realm in vain;
Then with erected eyes stood fix'd in woe,
And, as he spoke, the tears began to flow.
Ye Gods (he cry'd) upon what barren coast,
In what new region is Ulysses tost?
Possess'd by wild barbarians fierce in arms?
Or men, whose bosom tender pity warms?
Where shall this treasure now in safety lie?
And whither, whither its sad owner fly?
Ah why did I Alcinous' grace implore?
Ah why forsake Phæacia's happy shore?
Some juster prince perhaps had entertain'd,
And safe restor'd me to my native land.
Is this the promis'd, long expected coast;
And this the faith Phæacia's rulers boast?
Oh righteous Gods! of all the great, how few
Are just to heav'n, and to their promise true!
But he the pow'r, to whose all-seeing eyes
The deeds of men appear without disguise,
'Tis his alone, t'avenge the wrongs I bear;
For still th'oppress'd are his peculiar care:
To count these presents, and from thence to prove
Their faith, is mine, the rest belongs to Jove.
Then on the sands he rang'd his wealthy store,
The gold, the vests, the tripods number'd o'er;
All these he found, but still, in error lost,
Disconsolate he wanders on the coast:
Sighs for his country; and laments again
To the deaf rocks, and hoarse-resounding main.
When lo! the guardian Goddess of the wise,
Celestial Pallas, stood before his eyes;
In show a youthful swain, of form divine,
Who seem'd descended from some princely line:
A graceful robe her slender body drest,
Around her shoulders flew the waving vest,
Her decent hand a shining javelin bore,
And painted sandals on her feet she wore:
To whom the King: Whoe'er of human race
Thou art, that wander'st in this desart place,
With joy to thee, as to some God, I bend,
To thee my treasures and my self commend.
O tell a wretch, in exile doom'd to stray,
What air I breath, what country I survey?
The fruitful continent's extreamest bound,
Or some fair isle which Neptune's arms surround?
From what far clime (said she) remote from fame,
Arriv'st thou here, a stranger to our name?
Thou seest an island, not to those unknown,
Whose hills are brighten'd by the rising sun;
Nor those that plac'd beneath his utmost reign,
Behold him sinking in the western main.
The rugged soil allows no level space
For flying chariots, or the rapid race;
Yet not ungrateful to the peasant's pain,
Suffices fulness to the swelling grain;
The loaded trees their various fruits produce,
And clust'ring grapes afford a gen'rous juice;
Woods crown our mountains, and in ev'ry grove
The bounding goats and frisking heifers rove;
Soft rains and kindly dews refresh the field,
And rising springs eternal verdure yield.
Ev'n to those shores is Ithaca renown'd,
Where Troy's majestic ruins strow the ground.
At this, the chief with transport was possest,
His panting heart exulted in his breast:
Yet well dissembling his untimely joys,
And veiling truth in plausible disguise;
Thus, with an air sincere, in fiction bold,
His ready tale th'inventive hero told.
Oft' have I heard in Crete this island's name,
For 'twas from Crete, my native soil, I came;
Self-banish'd thence, I sail'd before the wind,
And left my children and my friends behind.
From fierce Idomeneus' revenge I flew,
Whose son, the swift Orsilochus, I slew,
(With brutal force he seiz'd my Trojan prey,
Due to the toils of many a bloody day.)
Unseen I 'scap'd; and, favour'd by the night,
In a Phænician vessel took my flight;
For Pyle or Elis bound; but tempests tost,
And raging billows drove us on your coast:
In dead of night an unknown port we gain'd,
Spent with fatigue, and slept secure on land;
But 'ere the rosy morn renew'd the day,
While in th'embrace of pleasing sleep I lay,
Sudden, invited by auspicious gales,
They land my goods, and hoist their flying sails,
Abandon'd here, my fortune I deplore,
A hapless exile on a foreign shore.
Thus while he spoke, the blue-ey'd maid began
With pleasing smiles to view the godlike man;
Then chang'd her form, and now divinely bright
Jove's heav'nly daughter stood confess'd to sight,
Like a fair virgin in her beauty's bloom,
Skill'd in th'illustrious labours of the loom.
O still the same Ulysses! she rejoin'd,
In useful craft successfully refin'd;
Artful in speech, in action, and in mind!
Suffic'd it not, that thy long labours past
Secure thou seest thy native shore at last?
But this to me? who, like thy self excell
In arts of counsel, and dissembling well:
To me, whose wit exceeds the pow'rs divine,
No less, than mortals are surpass'd by thine:
Know'st thou not me, who made thy life my care,
Thro' ten years wandring, and thro' ten years war;
Who taught thee arts, Alcinous to persuade,
To raise his wonder, and engage his aid?
And now appear, thy treasures to protect,
Conceal thy person, thy designs direct,
And tell what more thou must from fate expect;
Domestic woes, far heavier to be born,
The pride of fools, and slaves insulting scorn.
But thou be silent, nor reveal thy state,
Yield to the force of unresisted fate,
And bear unmov'd the wrongs of base mankind,
The last and hardest conquest of the mind.
Goddess of wisdom! (Ithacus replies)
He who discerns thee must be truly wise,
So seldom view'd, and ever in disguise.
When the bold Argives led their warring pow'rs
Against proud Ilion's well-defended tow'rs,
Ulysses was thy care, celestial maid,
Grac'd with thy sight, and favour'd with thy aid:
But when the Trojan piles in ashes lay,
And, bound for Greece, we plow'd the watry way;
Our fleet dispers'd, and driv'n from coast to coast;
Thy sacred presence from that hour I lost;
Till I beheld thy radiant form once more,
And heard thy counsels on Phæacia's shore.
But by th'almighty author of thy race,
Tell me, oh tell, is this my native place?
For much I fear, long tracts of land and sea
Divide this coast from distant Ithaca.
The sweet delusion kindly you impose,
To sooth my hopes and mitigate my woes.
Thus he: The blue-ey'd Goddess thus replies:
How prone to doubt, how cautious are the wise?
Who vers'd in fortune, fear the flatt'ring show,
And taste not half the bliss the Gods bestow.
The more shall Pallas aid thy just desires,
And guard the wisdom which her self inspires.
Others, long absent from their native place,
Strait seek their home, and fly with eager pace,
To their wives arms, and childrens dear embrace.
Not thus Ulysses; he decrees to prove
His subjects faith, and Queens suspected love,
Who mourn'd her Lord twice ten revolving years,
And wastes the days in grief, the nights in tears.
But Pallas knew (thy friends and navy lost)
Once more 'twas giv'n thee to behold thy coast:
Yet how could I with adverse fate engage,
And mighty Neptune's unrelenting rage?—
Now lift thy longing eyes, while I restore
The pleasing prospect of thy native shore!
Behold the port of Phorcys, fenc'd around
With rocky mountains, and with olives crown'd!
Behold the gloomy Grot, whose cool recess
Delights the Nereids of the neighb'ring seas;
Whose now neglected altars in thy reign
Blush'd with the blood of sheep and oxen slain.
Behold where Neritus the clouds divides,
And shakes the waving forests on his sides!
So spake the Goddess, and the prospect clear'd,
The mists dispers'd, and all the coast appear'd:
The King with joy confess'd his place of birth,
And, on his knees, salutes his mother earth;
Then, with his suppliant hands upheld in air,
Thus to the sea-green sisters sends his pray'r.
All hail! Ye virgin daughters of the main;
Ye streams, beyond my hopes beheld again!
To you once more your own Ulysses bows,
Attend his transports, and receive his vows.
If Jove prolong my days, and Pallas crown
The growing virtues of my youthful son,
To you shall rites divine be ever paid,
And grateful off'rings on your altars laid.



Did Milton's Prose, O Charles, thy Death defend?
A furious Foe unconscious proves a Friend.
On Milton's Verse does Btly comment?—Know
A weak officious Friend becomes a Foe.
While he but sought his Author's Fame to further,
The murd'rous Critic has aveng'd thy Murder.



Go tuneful bird, forbear to soar,
And the bright sun admire no more;
Go bask in Serenissa's eyes,
And turn a bird of paradise.
In those fair beams thy wings display,
Take shorter journies to the day,
And at an humbler pitch prefer
Thy musick to an angel's ear.
Nor, tho' her slave, thy lot deplore;
The god of love himself's no more:
Ev'n him to constancy she brings,
And clips, like thine, his wav'ring wings.
She gains from us, as now from thee,
Our songs by our captivity;
But happier you attention gain,
While wretched lovers sing in vain.



Tis rumour'd, Budgell on a time
Writing a Sonnet, cou'd not rhime;
Was he discouragd? no such matter;
He'd write in Prose—To the Spectator.
There too Invention faild of late:
What then? Gad damn him, he'd Translate,
Not Verse, to that he had a Pique—
From French? He scornd it; no, from Greek.
He'd do't; and ne'r stand Shill—I Shall—I,
Ay, and inscribe to Charles Lord Halli—
Our Gallo-Grecian at the last
Has kept his word, Here's Teophraste.
How e're be not too vain, Friend Budgell!
Men of Ill Hearts, you know, will judge ill.
Some flatly say, the Book's as ill done,
As if by Boyer, or by Gildon;
Others opine you only chose ill,
And that this Piece was meant for Ozell.
For me, I think (in spite of Blunders)
You may, with Addison, do wonders.
But faith I fear, some Folks beside
These smart, new Characters supplyd.
The honest Fellow out at Heels
Pray between Friends, was not that Steel's?
The Rustic Lout so like a Brute,
Was Philips's beyond Dispute.
And the fond Fop so clean contrary,
Tis plain, tis very plain, was Cary.
Howe're, the Coxcomb's thy own Merit,
That thou hast done, with Life and Spirit.



In vain you boast Poetic Names of yore,
And cite those Sapho's we admire no more:
Fate doom'd the Fall of ev'ry Female Wit,
But doom'd it then when first Ardelia writ.
Of all Examples by the World confest,
I knew Ardelia could not quote the best;
Who, like her Mistress on Britannia's Throne;
Fights, and subdues in Quarrels not her own.
To write their Praise you but in vain essay;
Ev'n while you write, you take that Praise away:
Light to the Stars the Sun does thus restore,
But shines himself till they are seen no more.



As gods sometimes descend from heav'n and deign
On earth a while with mortals to remain,
So gentle sleep from Serenissa flies,
To dwell at last upon her lover's eyes.
That god's indulgence can she justly crave,
Who flies the tyrant to relieve the slave?
Or should those eyes alone that rest enjoy,
Which in all others they themselves destroy?
Let her whom fear denies repose to take,
Think for her love what crowds of wretches wake.
So us'd to sighs, so long inur'd to tears,
Are winds and tempests dreadful to her ears?
Jove with a nod may bid the world to rest,
But Serenissa must becalm the breast.



When love would strike th'offending fair,
This incense bribes the god to spare;
And Cytheræa now does prize
No sweets but Serenissa's sighs.
The yielding nymph by these confest,
Encourag'd lovers seek her breast:
So spicy gales at once betray
Th'Arabian coast, and waft us on our way.